Game Master
Emulator
Create dynamic role-playing
adventures without preparation
For use as a supplement for your favorite role-playing games
TM
WM2

-- 1 of 54 --

ART
RyK Productions
To contact RyK, you can send email to info@ryk.nl, or visit
their webpage at www.ryk.nl
PLAYTESTERS
A host of online and real-time gamers whose names are lost
to me now. Sorry. Thanks, even to that guy who hated this
game and thought it a waste of time.
MORAL SUPPORT
My wife, Jennifer, who believes all things are possible.
Also, my daughter Ally, just because she’s so darn cute.
TECHNICAL SUPPORT
Apple, for making such an insanely great computer.
OTHER FORMS OF SUPPORT
Word Mill Publishing, my daytime job.
Word Mill Publishing
5005 LaMart Dr. #204 • Riverside, CA 92507
mythic@wordpr.com • www.mythic.wordpr.com
Mythic: Game Master Emulator © Copyright 2006 by Tom Pigeon and Word
Mill Publishing. Published by Word Mill Publishing. All rights reserved.
Reproduction of this work by any means without written permission from the
publisher, except short excerpts for the purpose of reviews or pages clearly
marked for personal use, is expressly prohibited. The mention of or reference
to any company or product in these pages is not a challenge to the trademark
or copyright concerned.
“To help, to continually help
and share, that is the sum
of all knowledge;
that is the meaning of art.”
Eleonora Duse
Credits
W
W
The author extends his heartfelt thanks to those friendly souls who helped make this book come true. Without
contributors, playtesters, friends, helpful advice, guidance and criticism, there would be no Mythic.

-- 2 of 54 --

by Tom Pigeon
Published by Word Mill Publishing
Game Master
Emulator
Adventure Generator
TM

-- 3 of 54 --

4
Introduction . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .5
Chapter 1: Mythic Adventures . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .6
Chapter 2: The Fate Chart . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .9
Chapter 3: Randomness . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .13
Chapter 4: The Adventure 	. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .20
Chapter 5: GM Emulation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .33
Chapter 6: World Creation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .38
Chapter 7: Notes & Suggestions . . . . . . . . . . . . .40
Chapter 8: Extended Example . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .43
TM
Game Master
Emulator

-- 4 of 54 --

W elcome to Mythic: Game Master Emulator,
improvisational role-playing using your favorite
role-playing games. Mythic: GM Emulator is meant for
use by role-players with a little experience under their
belts and their favorite game in hand. It is not a stand-
alone game. For that, we have Mythic (just Mythic),
which is a fully fledged, universal role-playing game.
Mythic was published in early 2003 as an attempt to
produce an rpg that could be played solo or with a group,
minus the game master. Or, with the Game Master, but
without preparation.
Judging from the enthusiastic response from those who
purchased and played Mythic, the system is a success.
Mythic is really two products in one. It is a universal
rpg, and a system for emulating a GM for any role-playing
game. Some bought Mythic for both portions, while
others use only the emulation system. Recognizing that
not everyone wants the universal game sections of
Mythic, we are publishing this version that contains only
the emulation rules. The system presented here is slightly
updated from the original version published in Mythic.
Now, on to the meat of the matter. What is GM
emulation? I’m glad you asked ...
W HAT IS
THIS THING
ALL ABOUT ?Most RPGs operate under the principle that there are
players and there is a Game Master, who is responsible for
running the show. The GM prepares all the details of an
adventure, and then “runs” the players through that
adventure. This usually requires a great deal of
preparation on the part of the GM and the handling of
many details.
Mythic: GME is different in that it requires no
preparation from the GM. Mythic adventures are meant
to be played off the cuff, with perhaps a few minutes of
brainstorming to come up with the opening scene.
Mythic can also be played entirely without a GM. The
same mechanics in Mythic that allow a GM to run an
adventure without preparation also allow a group of
players to do without the GM.
You can think of Mythic as an artificial intelligence. It
is designed to use simple rules of logic to answer any
yes/no question. So, whether you are playing alone, or
acting as an unprepared GM, or are a group of players
without a GM, just ask your questions ... only, instead of
asking a live GM, you ask Mythic.
We’ll get into this more in a bit. Just you wait and see.
A BOUT
THIS BOOK
In each chapter you will find shaded boxes and “torn
paper” boxes. The shaded boxes provide examples and
clarifications, while the paper boxes offer useful rules. At
the back of this book you will find a summary of most of
these rules, and other bits of useful information collected
for you to find easily.
Introduction
5

-- 5 of 54 --

Let’s face it: The life of a Game Master can be a
bummer. There’s the weight of responsibility,
hours of preparation, and keeping track of
everything. And I mean everything!
It’s no mystery why most gaming groups
have one poor schmuck who acts as the
GM every single time. No one else wants
to do it. And who would? Actually playing
is so much more fun.
With Mythic, you can do away with
the GM entirely, if you wish. Or, if your GM enjoys
playing God, Mythic can make adventures more fun for
the GM by eliminating all of that nasty preparation. In a
Mythic adventure, the GM (or players sans GM) can start
an evening’s entertainment with about five minutes of
prep time. As the adventure unfolds, the GM is just as
surprised by the twists and turns as the players are.
Fun for everyone.
No GM? What you
talkin’ ‘bout Willis!
Mythic is a gaming system that automates the
functions of a living, breathing GM. It works through
interpretation and logical principles. (We’ll get more into
that later. For now, trust me.) The upshot is, with Mythic
acting as your GM, that poor schmuck can finally roll up
a character and get his hands dirty. It also means you can
play solo if you wish (and who hasn’t wanted to do that,
just once?)
How can such a system be used? Let’s see ...
No GM, multiple players
Everyone whip out your character! To get an adventure
going, players either roll up or decide on an opening
scenario, and perhaps a few details or two, and Mythic:
GME takes it from there. All action is decided through
the asking of yes/no questions and the application of
logical principles. By asking and answering questions, the
adventure moves along, with the occasional random event
throwing players a curve ball. The action is broken into
scenes, just like in a movie, to keep everything straight.
No GM, one player
Mythic: GME can be used to go solo. There have been
various solo systems in the past. But let’s be honest, none
of them are truly satisfying. How many variations of
“Choose-Your-Own” can you go through before you start
longing for something more? Solo play in Mythic works
the same as in group play. You’re just alone.
One GM, any
number of players
For those who like to be a GM, we have something for
you, too. The same tools that allow Mythic to
automatically generate adventures on the fly without a
GM also work with a GM. This means very little to zero
preparation, if you don’t want to prepare. Simply create
an opening scenario (you can come up with that on the
drive over), or roll one up, and follow Mythic as it guides
you along. Mythic will throw in its own twists and turns,
so the GM will be just as shocked as the players as the
adventure proceeds.
This is not to say, though, that total control is taken
out of the hands of the GM. The GM is free to break
away from the structure that Mythic puts together. If
nothing else, Mythic will generate an adventure skeleton
that the GM can work with. At the most, Mythic will
spin the entire adventure for the GM, whose job will be
to administer the process.
Mythic with other RPGs
Mythic: GME generates dynamic, unfolding adventures
on the fly. As a GM emulator, Mythic is meant to be
played with other role-playing games. Mythic takes the
place of the GM, but the main RPG’s rules still handle
character creation, combat, task resolution and everything
it would normally handle. Questions that players would
ask the GM are now asked to Mythic, instead.
The write stuff
Finally, Mythic: GME can be used as a writing tool.
The architecture that creates dynamic adventures is really
an automated story-telling system. It will work just as well
without any games or formalized characters attached. Just
set the scene, ask some questions, and start writing.
6
Chapter 1
Mythic Adventures

-- 6 of 54 --

T HE IMPORTANCE
OF 	L OGIC AND
I NTERPRETATION
There are two concepts that are central to successfully
running a Mythic adventure: logic and interpretation. The
entire mechanic for generating adventures on the fly, running
without a GM, and making it all work hinge on the proper
application of logic and interpretation.
Where logic comes in
Logic is used in Mythic to get an idea of what happens
next. This is done by considering what has already occurred,
applying whatever new twists have popped up, and deciding
what the most logical outcome will be. This expected
outcome is usually tested on the Fate Chart to find out which
direction it actually goes.
The general rule is,
whatever is most logical,
that is what is expected to
happen. Notice, I say
“expected.” The story will
rarely proceed exactly where
you think it will and unexpected
events will crop up that will turn
your logical adventure on its ear.
However, we need a basis to work
from and logic provides it.
This harping on logic will make more
sense later in the book, but I wanted to
hook your mind on it now while you’re
fresh.
Where interpretation
comes in
Just as all things are logical in
Mythic, all answers to important
questions are arrived upon through
interpretation. Most information in
Mythic comes through the asking
of simple yes/no questions.
Mythic provides a framework for
providing general answers to
these questions. These answers must be
interpreted, logically of course.
This, too, will make more sense later in the
book.
Improvisation
I’m going to throw a bonus concept for you. In
addition to logic and interpretation, improvisation is
Mythic’s third linchpin that makes it all work. Think
about our claims for a moment: you can play without any
preparation and without a GM. Huh?!
Logic dictates what happens next, interpretation
decides what exactly logic is talking about, and
improvisation is the glue that fills in the holes and keeps
it all together.
Improvisation comes from the players usually in the
form of questions. A player can ask any question, and the
answer will change the course of the adventure, perhaps
in ways the player hadn’t even guessed. But it’s the asking
of questions that moves events along, and those questions
are derived improvisationally.
For instance, the players’ characters are standing in
the foyer of an ancient, abandoned mansion. They know
only that the place is musty and decayed, but must have
once been a very spacious and beautiful house. A player
asks, “Are there stairs going up to the second floor?”
Using Mythic rules, they receive an answer of “yes.”
Thus, a new detail about the
gameworld has been established
(there are stairs in the foyer leading
up to the second floor). This detail
did not exist until the player asked
the question, and the question was out
of his imagination, improvised.
All details in Mythic
are generated in just this
way. Questions are
asked, dice are rolled, the
results are viewed through a
lense of logic and interpretation,
which maintains the world’s
consistency and gives it the
same logical solidity as it
would possess as if there
were a living GM with
sheets full of data running
the operation. The only
difference is that details of
the game world do not
exist until a player
specifically asks for
them. The end result,
however, is the same.
Mythic Adventures
7

-- 7 of 54 --

The Fate Chart is the heart of Mythic.
Everything that happens in a Mythic
adventure is resolved by forming a yes/no question.
The logic of that question is then applied to the
Fate Chart, which gives a percentage probability of a
“yes” answer. The results are either yes, no, exceptionally yes
or exceptionally no. The players then interpret the results to
fit logically into the adventure. All questions are resolved in
this manner, from determining the contents of a room to
finding out who the villain really is.
QUESTIONS,
QUESTIONS
All action is moved along in Mythic by asking yes/no
questions. Are there monsters in the room? Is the door
locked? Is it raining today?
Normally, such questions would be asked to a Game
Master who is keeping track of such details. In a Mythic
adventure, the GM can be replaced; the rules of Mythic are
designed to answer all questions put to it and in a logical
manner, as long as they are phrased as a yes/no question.
A glance at the next page will show you the Fate Chart.
Along the left side are probability descriptors (impossible,
likely, a sure thing, etc.) and along the bottom are “Chaos
Ranks.” Chaos is tracked throughout the adventure to
represent how out of control the situation is becoming. The
higher the chaos, the greater your chances of a yes response to
a question, which usually means more action. By referencing
odds on the left with chaos along the bottom, the Fate Chart
gives you the percentage chance of your question being a
“yes.”
When a player asks a question, the next step is to
determine what you think the odds are of that question being
a yes. This is a totally subjective value, as you can see from
the odds listed on the left. Your choices start in the middle at
50/50. These are good odds to pick if you really think there is
a 50% chance of getting a yes, or when you have no idea of
the probability. Additional choices range upward with
Somewhat likely, Likely, Very likely, Near sure thing, A sure
thing, and Has to be. Odds range downwards from 50/50 with
Unlikely, Very unlikely, No way, and Impossible.
The descriptive nature of the odds makes it simple to
determine because you can use everyday language. Are the
odds of the roulette table turning up black 50/50? Is it very
likely to rain? Is there just no way that a key will be under the
doormat?
You may wonder at the Impossible and Has to be odds.
After all, if it’s impossible, it can’t happen, right? Not
necessarily. In fictional worlds, even the seemingly impossible
can occur, and the Fate Chart keeps the door open for that
possibility. For instance, a character has died. Thus, the odds
of the man standing at the door being that dead character are
impossible. This doesn’t mean that it can’t actually happen, as
the impossible happens all the time in movies and books. As
far as the characters are concerned, however, it is impossible.
So, who makes the determination of the odds? If you are
playing with a GM, he makes this decision. If you are not,
then the group of players must come to a consensus. If you
cannot decide, then the group must average their opinions
and take the closest description.
A word of caution here, however: don’t take forever.
Decide quickly, and move on. Go with the odds that seem
right, but don’t wrack your brain too much.
For example: The players are leading their characters, a
trio of old-west cowboys, through a canyon as they search for
a band of escaping bank robbers. One of the players is nervous
of an ambush, so he asks the question, “Are there cliffs above
us where they could ambush us from?” The player who asks
the question thinks the odds are very likely, while the other
players think the odds are only likely. They decide,
democratically, since 2 out of 3 think it’s likely, then likely
will be the odds.
You have your question and you have your odds. Now it’s
time to consult the Fate Chart. Cross reference the odds with
the current chaos score (we’ll get into the chaos rank a little
later) for your probability of a “yes” answer to the question.
Roll 1D100 and compare it to this value. If you roll within
the value, then the answer is “yes.” If you roll above, then the
answer is “no.”
By rolling very low, or very high, you can achieve
exceptional results. These are the little numbers to the left
and right of the larger, percentage numbers. Rolling equal to
or less than the left number is an exceptional yes, rolling
equal to or higher than the right number is an exceptional no.
You’ll notice that some numbers are negative, while others
go above 100. These results are virtually a guaranteed “no” or
“yes.” However, you still must roll to see if an exceptional
result occurs.
8
Chapter 2
The Fate Chart

-- 8 of 54 --

The Fate Chart
9
More information, please
Since you are using Mythic with another game system,
that other system will likely have a mechanic for handling
such situations as combat and task resolution. Mythic, on
the other hand, will flesh out the game-world itself. Since
Mythic adventures can be played without a GM, the only
source of information about the world around you is through
yes/no questioning.
The most common questions, then, will be questions
seeking more detail about adventure surroundings. Are there
exits in this room? Are there more than three goons? Do the
thieves have a getaway car ready? Does the newspaper run a
story on my character’s successful rescue operation?
Often, general information about the world around your
characters is enough. You know that the hall continues
straight on, but you don’t bother to ask what kind of stone
you feel underfoot. The players can ask the question, of
course, if they think it is important. However, the point is,
the level of detail is up to you.
Sometimes, of course, details are very important. For
instance, the character may be a fantasy warrior who has
rounded a corner in a cavern and encountered an ogre.
Before the warrior commits himself to combat, he asks a few
questions. Such as: Is the ogre armed? Is he surprised to see
me? Do I see friends of his behind him down the hall?
These are questions that are easily and quickly answered
using the Fate Chart. The answer is either yes or no, and a
few quick questions will tell this player all he needs to know
before he decides to attack or run.
The influence of Chaos
on Questions
You will find out about Chaos, and how it
effects a Mythic adventure, in the adventure
chapter. For now, you need to know that you
will keep track of a chaos factor ranging
from 1 to 9. The higher the number, the
more likely a “yes” answer is and more
unexpected events occur.
Fate ChartTo use this chart, cross reference the odds of a question resulting in a “yes” answer with the current chaos rank. The result is the percentage chance of the question
resulting in a “yes” answer. A roll within the range of the number on the left is an “exceptional yes” and equal or more than the number on the right is an “exceptional no.”
Impossible
No way
Very unlikely
Unlikely
50/50
Somewhat likely
Likely
Very likely
Near sure thing
A sure thing
Has to be
Has to be x2
Odds
10 50 91
15 75 96
16 85 97
18 90 99
19 95 100
19 95 100
20 100 0
21 105 0
23 115 0
25 125 0
26 145 0
29 165 0
5 25 86
10 50 91
13 65 94
15 75 96
16 85 97
18 90 99
19 95 100
19 95 100
20 100 0
22 110 0
26 130 0
30 150 0
3 15 84
7 35 88
10 50 91
11 55 92
15 75 96
16 85 97
18 90 99
19 95 100
19 95 100
19 95 100
20 100 0
24 120 0
2 10 83
5 25 86
9 45 90
10 50 91
13 65 94
16 80 97
16 85 97
18 90 99
19 95 100
19 95 100
20 100 0
24 120 0
1 5 82
3 15 84
5 25 86
7 35 88
10 50 91
13 65 94
15 75 96
16 85 97
18 90 99
18 90 99
19 95 100
1 5 82
2 10 83
3 15 84
4 20 85
7 35 88
10 50 91
11 55 92
15 75 96
16 80 97
16 85 97
19 95 100
20 100 0
0 0 81
1 5 82
2 10 83
3 15 84
5 25 86
9 45 90
10 50 91
13 65 94
15 75 96
16 80 97
18 90 99
19 95 100
0 0 81
1 5 82
1 5 82
2 10 83
3 15 84
5 25 86
7 35 88
10 50 91
11 55 92
13 65 94
16 85 97
19 95 100
0 -20 77
0 0 81
1 5 82
1 5 82
2 10 83
4 20 85
5 25 86
9 45 90
10 50 91
11 55 92
16 80 97
18 90 99
20 for each point over 2
+20 for each point over 2 	9 	8 	7 	6 	5 	4 	3 	2 	1	Exceptional Yes
The lower 1/5 of the success range.
Exceptional No
The upper 1/5 of the failure range. 	Chaos Rank

-- 9 of 54 --

Can’t find the page!
Another way to use the Fate Chart is to come up with
quick resolutions to a situation when you are not sure what
the actual rules are. You may know that the rpg you are using
has a mechanic to deal with character’s drowning in
quicksand, but you can’t find it in the rule book no matter
how many pages you flip.
To keep things moving, you could simply use the yes/no
mechanic of the Fate Chart as a fill-in to adjudicate rules on
the spot.
Of course, you could take this all the way and play an
entire role-playing game using nothing but the Fate Chart. It
would make for a very rules-light way to play, but it would
work.
When to roll, when
to make it up
Should you use the Fate Chart to answer every question?
“Is the sun shining today? Does the taxi driver say ‘Hi’? Do I
have exact change in my wallet?”
No. Please.
Don’t use the Fate Chart for every question; your
characters will never get out the front door. If the question is
not important to the adventure, then just use good old-
fashioned logic and don’t bother rolling. If there is confusion
as to the most logical answer, then go ahead and use the
chart.
Much of the color of your adventure will come from the
logical answers that were fleshed out by prior Fate Chart
questions. Maybe you did roll to see if the taxi driver says
“Hi.” He doesn’t. Later, when characters talk to him to get
news of local happenings, he is less likely to be chatty, as we
have already established that he is not very friendly. Knowing
this about him will change the odds of future questions
concerning his actions.
In this way, the logical chain of events builds upon itself,
shaping the entire structure of the adventure. Keeping past
events and logic in mind also cuts down on the number of
rolls required on the Fate Chart. The more information you
already possess, the less you have to ask of the chart.
On the other hand, sometimes one question on the Fate
Chart is not enough to clarify a situation. It may take yet
another question to figure out what the original answer
meant.
For instance: “I open the door and enter the room. Is it
empty?” The answer: No. Well, if it’s not empty, what’s in it?
At this point, you can either use logic, or ask another
question to clarify. If your character has been chasing a
monster through a catacomb, it makes logical sense that the
monster is in the room, cornered. However, if you’re not sure
of this, then you could ask a question like, “Is the monster
I’ve been chasing in here?”
To keep the frequency of questions down, and encourage
logical thinking, try and ask a question in such a way that you
will only need one question on the Fate Chart to answer it.
Or, at most, two questions. That should be enough
information for logic to take over from there.
For instance, a pair of occult investigators creep through a
graveyard at midnight, searching for the walking dead. They
The Fate Chart
10
Sample Questions and Answers
“My character parachutes out of the plane. He tries to
land in an open field. Does he make it safely?”
Yes: Yep.
No: He lands in the field, but hurts himself.
Exceptional Yes: He lands without a problem, and very
quickly.
Exceptional No: He misses the field entirely and
crashes into the forest. He hurts himself, badly.
“Do I succeed in running into the house and slamming
the door shut before the vampire pounces on me?”
Yes: ‘nuff said.
No: You make it to the door, then he pounces on you.
Exceptional Yes: You make it to the door in double time,
shut it, lock it, and have a few seconds to spare.
Exceptional No: You trip and fall, never making it close
to the door. Not only does the vampire pounce on you,
but let’s see if you’re hurt by the fall, too.
“As I walk through the dark hall, I listen carefully. Do I
hear any sounds?”
Yes: You hear something, but you don’t know what yet.
No: All is silent.
Exceptional Yes: You hear something very loud,
perhaps very sudden. It may take another question to
figure out what it is.
Exceptional No: All is silent. There is no appropriate
exceptional result, so this remains the same as a simple
no.
“I want to get into the house. Is there a set of keys
under the door mat, by chance?”
Yes: Your lucky day.
No: No.
Exceptional Yes: No, but when you try the door, it’s
unlocked.
Exceptional No: Heck, there’s not even a door mat.

-- 10 of 54 --

inspect a mausoleum, checking to see if the entrance has
been opened lately. One of the players asks, “Do we hear
anything?” Yes. “Does it sound like something scrambling
inside?” No. “Does it sound like someone walking through the
graveyard?” No. “Is it something flying through the air?” No.
This player is hitting a run of no answers and apparently
plans on continuing to ask until he gets a positive answer. He
could have stopped after the second question, “Does it sound
like something scrambling inside?” We already know that
they hear something, and it’s not coming from inside the
mausoleum. They could simply use logic at this point to say
they hear something outside, in the graveyard. A shuffling
sound, perhaps. Or something too faint to identify. Going the
logic route after two questions yields an answer that the
players should be able to work with.
Of course, if you really want to, you can keep asking
more questions. I find, however, that setting the one to two
question maximum automatically stops players from asking
a series of detailed questions; they get to the Big Picture
much faster.
The art of
interpretation
Using the Fate Chart to find your percentage chance of
success is only the beginning. Next, someone must roll some
dice and see if the answer is “yes” or “no.” It is up to the GM,
or the players if there is no GM, to figure out what the answer
really means.
Interpretation is an important part of Mythic. Again, logic
must prevail. Whatever seems the most logical answer, given
the circumstances, is the result.
Sometimes interpretations will come easily. If the question
was, “I open the desk drawer. Is there a gun inside?” A no
answer is simple enough, and a yes means there is indeed a
gun in the desk. It doesn’t say what kind of gun, but a logical
assumption would be a common handgun.
After interpreting the Fate Chart result, if the players
wish, they can try to clarify the answer further with more
questions. “Is the gun a glock? Is it loaded? Is there extra
ammunition in the desk?”
Eventually, players learn to ask the right questions. It is
best to ask “Big Picture” questions, rather than
many small, detail questions. The more
important the situation, the more detailed
questions you should ask, but don’t get in the
habit of asking for excruciating detail in every
circumstance. The point is to gather only as much
information as needed to make a logical decision.
Exceptional results
Sometimes when a roll is made on the Fate
Chart, the player will roll very high or very low.
This can create an exceptional result.
Exceptionals occur when a roll is made in
the upper or lower 20% (one-fifth) of the
percentage range given.
In other words, if the odds of a yes are
50%, then a roll of 1-10 is an exceptional
yes, and a 91-100 is an exceptional no. If
the odds are 80%, then a 1-16 is an
exceptional yes, and a 97-100 is an
exceptional no.
So you don’t have to work out the
exceptional values for yourself
every time, the Fate Chart lists
the lower and upper ranges
The Fate Chart
11
Summary of How to Use the
Fate Chart
1: State a question: Form a yes/no question.
2: Determine odds: Estimate the odds of the
question coming out “yes.”
3: Determine probability: Cross reference
the odds with the current Choas score
to get your percentage chance
of a “yes” answer.
4: Roll: Roll 1D100. If you roll
within the percentage range,
the answer is yes. If you roll
above, the answer is no. If you roll
in the lower 1/5 of the range,
then the answer is an
exceptional yes. If you roll in
the upper 1/5 of the failure
range, then the answer is
an exceptional no.
5: Interpret the answer:
Draw the most logical
conclusion from the
results. If this is not
possible, then ask another
question to clarify,
returning to step 1.

-- 11 of 54 --

beside each percentage chance for success.
You’ll notice on the Fate Chart that some values go above
100 and some below 0. These are cases where success or
failure is assured. However, you still need to roll to see if an
exceptional result occurs. For instance, if there is a 120%
chance of a yes, then a roll of 1-24 is an exceptional yes, and
the rest is a normal yes.
What exactly is an exceptional result? Well, just that
... exceptional. Usually, you can double or halve the
normal result, or determine that an exceptional no yields
the opposite of what you wanted. As with all else in
Mythic, you must use judgement and go with what seems
most logical, but exceptional results are the ideal yes and no.
For instance, if the question was, “I open the chest, is there
treasure inside?” and the result is an exceptional yes, then
you may decide that the chest contains a huge horde of
gold, or perhaps a special item your character has been
searching for. Had the result been an exceptional no,
then you may decide that not only is the chest empty,
but it is trapped as well to catch unwary treasure
hunters.
Some questions may be so cut and dried that
exceptional results seem silly. In those cases, ignore
the exceptional result and just treat it as a plain
yes or no.
For instance, a player may ask, “Is the car
locked?” A yes or a no answer is pretty clear. What
would an exceptional yes or no mean? If it’s important,
perhaps it means the car is unlocked and the key’s in the
ignition. Or, maybe it just means the same as a normal no. If,
after rolling an exceptional result, the players cannot come up
with a result right away that makes sense in an exceptional
way, then just treat it as a normal yes or no.
12
The Fate Chart
Whether players are asking questions to a GM, or they are
playing without a GM and are handling the questions
themselves, Mythic relies on the asking and answering of
questions to move the adventure along. Since any yes/no
question is allowed, the setting is ripe for abuse.
Of course, you are free to play any way you wish. But if a
power-gamer is playing with a group of role-players, they
may not appreciate the carefully worded questions designed
to elicit the most desired response from the Fate Chart.
As a general rule, a question should only be asked if it makes
logical sense. A party of adventurers prowling down a
dungeon hall may very well ask, “Do we hear anything?”
However, it would make little sense to ask, “Do I look down
and see a Vorpal Blade of Instant Murder at my feet?”
Also, players should discourage each other from twisting
their questions to take advantage of system mechanics. For
instance, when the Chaos Factor is high, there is a greater
likelihood of odds questions coming out yes. Knowing this,
they could always ask their question in the negative. For
instance, “There are no monsters in this hall, right?”
This could all be turned on its ear if the players decide to
intentionally play a comedy adventure, trying to get as
ridiculous as possible. This can be a lot of fun, especially if
you try to push the system into answering oddball questions.
But as a general rule you should keep your questions in the
realm of good sense.
How (not) to cheat

-- 12 of 54 --

L ogic is poor at one thing: coming up with surprises.
Taking this into account, Mythic builds random
events into the adventure so everything doesn’t
make too much sense. In an adventure that is guided by
players’ questions and expectations, randomness will add
extra dimension to the action, spinning plot twists you
may never have thought of before.
Random events can occur at two times during a
Mythic adventure: when a scene is first generated (see
the next chapter) and when a question is asked on the
Fate Chart.
Scene random events
These are unexpected twists that derail the characters
assumptions and create new, surprise scenes. As you will
find in the next chapter, Mythic adventures are broken
into scenes, just like a movie, and scenes are generated
from the player’s expectations. After the players express
what they think the next scene will be, however, they
must roll to see if that concept is altered. Sometimes the
scene will begin as expected, sometimes it will be
changed slightly, and sometimes a random event will
create an entirely new, unexpected scene.
This is described more fully in chapter 4.
Fate Chart random events
This is the most common type of random event.
Whenever a question is asked on the Fate Chart there is
the possibility of a random event occurring. The event
does not have to be linked to the question in any way. In
fact, the question should be resolved first, and then the
random event generated, just to keep everything straight.
When a fate question is asked, and 1D100 is rolled, if
a double number is obtained (i.e. 11, 22, 33, 44, etc.),
then a random event may have occurred. If this number
(the single digit, 1 for 11, 2 for 22, etc.) is equal to or less
than the chaos factor (another mechanic covered in the
next chapter), then something random happens.
For instance, if the player rolled a 55 to a question,
and the chaos factor was 8, then a random event takes
place. If chaos was below 5, however, nothing would
occur.
RANDOM EVENTS
Random events can throw unexpected twists into the
adventure, keeping the adventure fresh and exciting. Mythic
adventures are guided by logic, which maintains the
structure and continuity of events, but random events will
lead the adventure places that logic cannot. This is where
surprises pop up and the story can take twists that no one
would have expected.
Once it has been determined that a random event has
occurred, you must figure out what happens. There are three
components to a random event: context, focus, and
meaning.
Event context
“Context” is everything that has gone on in the
adventure up to this point. The adventure itself, and all that
has happened in the adventure, is the context. When
generating a random event, the focus and meaning of the
event should be shaped by the context of what has already
happened. The random event isn’t happening in a vacuum;
all that has already occurred is the stage on which this new
event takes place.
For instance, if the characters are spies sneaking through
a Russian castle, looking for stolen plans to a military
satellite, any new random events generated will have some
relation to this adventure scenario. If they generate a
random event that implies something negative happens to
one of the characters, perhaps he is spotted by a guard or he
drops his gun down a stairwell.
To say that you must consider the context of the
adventure before judging a random event may seem like
common sense, but sometimes even good sense bears
repeating. Keeping the context of the adventure in mind
will help you make the logical leap to a satisfying resolution
of the random event.
Event focus
Keeping the context of a random event in mind helps
frame the possibilities of what can happen. Next, you
establish where the action of that event is focused. This is
done by using the event focus table.
13
Chapter 3
R andomness

-- 13 of 54 --

Roll 1D100 on the event focus table. This tells you what
aspect of the adventure the random event directly impacts.
For instance, the event may directly effect a player character
or it might introduce a new, non-player character. Apply the
result to the events that are currently going on in the
adventure, the context. This will require interpretation, but
usually a clear meaning will present itself. The next step,
event meaning, will provide the final piece you need to
determine the random event. We’ll get to that in a moment.
Following are explanations of the various results of the
event focus table:
Remote Event
Something important has happened that bears on the
adventure, but the player characters were not present when
the event occurred, they only learn about it remotely. This
can result in many ways, from a non-player character telling
them some piece of news, to coming across evidence of this
other event. For instance, the players may encounter the
dead body of a NPC previously met in the adventure. The
remote event here is the murder of this character, which the
player characters did not directly witness. Or, the characters
may wander into a tavern and learn by word of mouth that
the enemy hordes have advanced, destroying the next town
down the road. Again, they are receiving the news second
hand.
A remote event can either by implied or directly stated.
In the case of the dead body, the characters only know that
the poor chap was killed somehow. In the tavern example,
they do not see the advancing hordes, they are only told
about it. Both cases count as remote events.
If you are playing your adventure cinematically (see the
adventure chapter), then your next scene may be a flashback
to this remote event. This will allow the players to role-play
the event, adding more tension to the adventure. If you are
taking a simulation approach to the adventure, then the
players will have to figure out what happened on their own.
NPC Action
An existing non-player
character makes a surprise
action. These are characters
who populate the game world
other than the player
characters themselves. If you
are playing with a GM, some of
these characters may have been
placed by him. Or, they may have
appeared through the normal course of adventuring.
However they made it onto the scene, one of them
is now doing something that impacts the player
characters. The players roll a random character
from the character list (see the adventure chapter). There
may be any number of NPCs on the list, so just roll a die
closest to the total number. For instance, if there are five
total NPCs in your game, roll a 1d6 (rerolling if a 6 is rolled)
to find the NPC in question.
The next step, event meaning, will help determine what
this character actually does. In many cases, when compared
to the adventure context, obvious character actions will
spring to mind. If one of the characters on the list, for
instance, is an assassin, a random action associated with that
character may likely involve someone’s attempted murder.
Or, if the NPC is an ally of the player characters, maybe he
shows up just in time to save their lives.
Introduce a New NPC
A brand new face is involved in the adventure. This may
be someone the player characters had expected to meet, or a
surprise. Either way, this new character is important to the
overall adventure and will be added to the character list
when the scene is over. The character’s appearance will
likely be combined with an action of some sort. The nature
of this action will come clearer after the next step, event
meaning. Determining the meaning will also help figure out
just who this NPC is.
The character does not need to be an individual but can
be any entity capable of independent action, such as an
organized group of townspeople or a government agency.
For example, the characters may be fantasy heroes
exploring a cavern. The players come up with a random
event and it turns out to be a new character. They
determine that the heroes come across a troll wandering the
cavern. If the characters kill the troll in this encounter, then
that would be the last of that character. However, if the troll
escapes, or if they flee from the troll, then the monster may
appear again later in the adventure. After this first
encounter the troll is no longer a “new” character and
Randomness
14
Event Focus Table
1-7 	. . . . . . . . . . . .Remote event
8-28 	. . . . . . . . . . .NPC action
29-35 	. . . . . . . . . .Introduce a new NPC
36-45 	. . . . . . . . . .Move toward a thread
46-52 . . . . . . . . . . .Move away from a thread
53-55 	. . . . . . . . . .Close a thread
56-67 	. . . . . . . . . .PC negative
68-75 	. . . . . . . . . .PC positive
76-83 	. . . . . . . . . .Ambiguous event
84-92 	. . . . . . . . . .NPC negative
93-100 	. . . . . . . . .NPC positive

-- 14 of 54 --

would be added to the character list at the end of the scene.
On the other hand, the characters may come across an
entire colony of goblins. In this case the character is not a
single creature but an entire population. This “character,”
perhaps entitled “goblin colony” on the character list, would
be a persistent character throughout the rest of the
adventure, capable of popping up at any time.
Move toward a thread
Threads are the goals that player characters are going
after. These are the unresolved missions that the players are
trying to solve. There could be more than one thread in an
adventure, some big and important while others of less
consequence. The next chapter will go more into theads.
This random event has something to do directly with
resolving an open thread. If there are more than one, then
randomly determine which thread it is. Other random
events from the event focus table can also involve a thread,
but not necessarily. This random event is directly related to
the thread, and should offer the characters an opportunity to
step closer to solving the thread.
For instance, the characters may be pulp-era treasure
hunters exploring an Egyptian pyramid. One thread is, “Find
the ancient tomb of Ank-Tonen.” They roll up a random
event involving this thread. They determine that they run
across an inscription on the wall that talks of the tomb, but
warns that the halls are guarded by deadly traps.
Whatever the event is, however, it is helpful to the
characters in their aim of solving the thread.
Move away from a thread
Just as the previous random event will help player
characters solve an open thread, this random event will
make it harder. Perhaps the thread they are trying to resolve
is, “Find the escaped criminal.” The characters have been
tracking him through a jungle, following a trail of footsteps.
Suddenly, this random event comes up, and the players
determine that it means the trail has disappeared.
This event makes resolving the thread a little more
difficult, but not necessarily impossible. The elimination of a
thread is handled in the next random event focus and, of
course, through normal role-play.
As before, if there are more than one thread, then
randomly determine which thread it is.
Close a thread
The random event is so important it actually closes an
open thread. If there are multiple threads open, then
randomly determine which one it is. To close a thread, the
thread is either resolved or the issue goes away. For instance,
in the case of our adventurers hunting down the criminal,
the thread could be resolved by them coming upon him
while he sleeps at his camp. Or, maybe they encounter his
mangled dead body. Either way, the thread of “track down
the escaped criminal” has been resolved.
Figure out what the most logical way to immediately close
the thread would be. The next step, event meaning, will help.
Player Character/NPC
Negative or Positive
Something bad, or good, happens to a player character, or
non-player character, whichever is indicated on the event
focus table. If there is more than one player character or NPC
then randomly determine who the subject is. The event
meaning will help determine what happens although logical
ideas should begin springing to mind. These can be major, or
minor, events. Perhaps the slumbering monster in the
chamber awakens and attacks the poor, chosen character. Or,
maybe while hiking through the desert the character discovers
that the only food he has packed is beef jerky. He hates beef
jerky.
This can be a very vague event focus, so you will have to
rely much upon the event context and event meaning. All
this focus tells you is who is directly effected, and if the effect
is good or bad.
Ambiguous event
All of the random events previously mentioned have a
direct impact on the adventure and the player characters.
They are helped, they are hindered, they get closer to their
goals or further away. Each has a direct story consequence.
The random event of “ambiguous event,” however, is
meant to encompass everything else that can happen. This
is a catchall category for anything that does not directly
Randomness
15
Summary of Resolving
Random Events
1) 	Determine event focus.
2) 	Determine event meaning (the
action and subject).
3) 	Interpret the random event
based on context, focus and
meaning. Take the most
logical conclusion.

-- 15 of 54 --

impact characters or NPCs. The event is not necessarily bad
or good. The event can be important, but often it is more
atmospheric to the scene. For instance, perhaps a chill wind
blows and a few dark clouds can be seen in the sky ...
portents of future rain. Or, while examining a house, the
characters come across a photograph of several people. Is
this a clue or just junk? They don’t know.
A habit can develop while generating random events for
every event to have Earth-shattering importance. This
random event focus offers you the opportunity to inject less
important elements or even comedy elements into your
adventure.
The ambiguous event can be the hardest random event to
interpret because of its ... well, ambiguity. Adventure context
doesn’t matter so much since the ambiguous event may have
nothing to do with the course of the adventure.
Often, the easiest way to interpret this event is to generate
the event meaning and then take the first thing that springs
to mind, even if it’s a little odd. For instance, the characters
may be walking through a cave when an ambiguous event is
called for. The players determine that there is a strange
symbol scrawled on the wall in red paint. They have no idea
what the symbol means, if anything, or if it’s important. It’s
just there.
Event meaning
After the focus of the event has been determined it’s time
to figure out the general gist of what the event means. This
step is to help the players interpret the random event, putting
a spin on the context and focus. By combining the event
focus with the event meaning, and taking the most logical
conclusion based on the context, an easy interpretation
should spring to mind.
The event meaning is derived by rolling 1d100 on the
event action table and 1d100 on the event subject table. This
gives you a simple two word sentance, basically, that should
tell you something.
Some of the meanings given may seem to duplicate results
of the event focus table. That’s fine; just read it all together
and see what you come up with. For instance, a few of the
event meanings imply the actions of people. You can take this
to apply to existing characters, if it seems appropriate, or
introduce a new character. You can do this even though you
didn’t roll up “Introduce new NPC” from the event focus
table.
The important thing is to let the event meaning lend
“spin” to the context and focus of the event. Just go with
whatever makes the most sense.
For instance, let’s say the characters are spacefarers on a
futuristic starship. They get a PC positive random event.
Checking the event meaning tables, they come up with
“adversity business.” The PC’s current goal, or his “business,”
is piloting the ship. The players determine that an adversity
comes up in the course of his flying: they come across a
massive asteroid field that may be difficult to pass through.
If combining the two words sounds odd to you, try adding
the word “of” in between to see if it sounds clearer. For
instance, if you rolled “failure” and “a plot” as the action and
subject, you could read that to be “failure of a plot.”
Interpreting
the final event
The result given from the event meaning charts is a brief,
and vague, description. It is up to the players to interpret
what it means when combined with the event focus and
context. Often, a meaning that fits nicely into what is
currently happening will jump out. If not, then take the most
logical interpretation that comes to mind.
If you’re stumped, or several meanings come up, you can
ask a fate question or two to clarify the meaning.
For instance: The characters are far-future explorers
examining the ruins of an alien civilization. That’s the
context. They roll up a random event, and determine the
focus is a player character negative. Checking the event
meaning charts, they get, “violate possessions.” Hmmm,
they’re not sure what this means and a ready interpretation is
not jumping to mind. To clarify, one of the players asks, “Do I
find that something I brought along is missing?” The Fate
Chart answers yes. Then they ask, “Is my gun missing?”
Again, yes.
All of these elements, combined with logic and
interpretation, give a virtually endless stream of possibilities
for random events. Do not feel too constrained by the results
of the focus and meaning tables. These are meant as guides to
lead you to interpretations. Feel free to bend and twist the
results until they fit a logical interpretation, although you
should take the most logical interpretation instead of just
taking the interpretation that most benefits your characters.
The ‘I dunno’ rule
When using Mythic and the randomness rules there will
come times when you follow the rules, perform each step,
and are left wondering, “What does all of this mean?” The
clues offered by the meaning, context and focus should
suggest an immediate meaning to the random event.
Generally, whatever occurs to you first, and seems the best
fit, is what you go with.
But what if nothing comes to mind? Or, it’s taking too
long?
Then forget it.
Randomness
16

-- 16 of 54 --

Randomness
17
1. Attainment
2. Starting
3. Neglect
4. Fight
5. Recruit
6. Triumph
7. Violate
8. Oppose
9. Malice
10. Communicate
11. Persecute
12. Increase
13. Decrease
14. Abandon
15. Gratify
16. Inquire
17. Antagonise
18. Move
19. Waste
20. Truce
21. Release
22. Befriend
23. Judge
24. Desert
25. Dominate
26. Procrastinate
27. Praise
28. Separate
29. Take
30. Break
31. Heal
32. Delay
33. Stop
34. Lie
35. Return
36. Immitate
37. Struggle
38. Inform
39. Bestow
40. Postpone
41. Expose
42. Haggle
43. Imprison
44. Release
45. Celebrate
46. Develop
47. Travel
48. Block
49. Harm
50. Debase
51. Overindulge
52. Adjourn
53. Adversity
54. Kill
55. Disrupt
56. Usurp
57. Create
58. Betray
59. Agree
60. Abuse
61. Oppress
62. Inspect
63. Ambush
64. Spy
65. Attach
66. Carry
67. Open
68. Carelessness
69. Ruin
70. Extravagance
71. Trick
72. Arrive
73. Propose
74. Divide
75. Refuse
76. Mistrust
77. Deceive
78. Cruelty
79. Intolerance
80. Trust
81. Excitement
82. Activity
83. Assist
84. Care
85. Negligence
86. Passion
87. Work hard
88. Control
89. Attract
90. Failure
91. Pursue
92. Vengeance
93. Proceedings
94. Dispute
95. Punish
96. Guide
97. Transform
98. Overthrow
99. Oppress
100. Change
Event Meaning: Action
1. Goals
2. Dreams
3. Environment
4. Outside
5. Inside
6. Reality
7. Allies
8. Enemies
9. Evil
10. Good
11. Emotions
12. Opposition
13. War
14. Peace
15. The innocent
16. Love
17. The spiritual
18. The intellectual
19. New ideas
20. Joy
21. Messages
22. Energy
23. Balance
24. Tension
25. Friendship
26. The physical
27. A project
28. Pleasures
29. Pain
30. Possessions
31. Benefits
32. Plans
33. Lies
34. Expectations
35. Legal matters
36. Bureaucracy
37. Business
38. A path
39. News
40. Exterior factors
41. Advice
42. A plot
43. Competition
44. Prison
45. Illness
46. Food
47. Attention
48. Success
49. Failure
50. Travel
51. Jealousy
52. Dispute
53. Home
54. Investment
55. Suffering
56. Wishes
57. Tactics
58. Stalemate
59. Randomness
60. Misfortune
61. Death
62. Disruption
63. Power
64. A burden
65. Intrigues
66. Fears
67. Ambush
68. Rumor
69. Wounds
70. Extravagance
71. A representative
72. Adversities
73. Opulence
74. Liberty
75. Military
76. The mundane
77. Trials
78. Masses
79. Vehicle
80. Art
81. Victory
82. Dispute
83. Riches
84. Status quo
85. Technology
86. Hope
87. Magic
88. Illusions
89. Portals
90. Danger
91. Weapons
92. Animals
93. Weather
94. Elements
95. Nature
96. The public
97. Leadership
98. Fame
99. Anger
100. Information
Event Meaning: Subject

-- 17 of 54 --

This is the “I Dunno” rule.
Simply put, if a meaning does not
jump right out at you, right
away, assume that no random
event occurred in the first place.
The motivation for this rule is
purely practical. A difficult to interpret
random event can stall a game
indefinitely as the players sit there thinking. The entire
intent of Mythic is to create fast-paced games from
nothing. Anything that slows this process down should
be discarded.
Don’t abuse the “I Dunno” rule, however. If only one
meaning suggests itself to you, but you don’t like it,
beware the temptation to discard it as not good enough.
If any interpretation readily fits the facts, then go with it.
A note about logic
The master sleuth Sherlock Holmes was often credited with astounding skills of
deduction. However, the type of logic he most often exhibited wasn’t deductive but
inductive logic, going from the specific to the general.
Although you don’t need to know this to play Mythic, it’s interesting to note that there
are different ways to look at logic.
Inductive logic, generally, is taking specific facts and fitting them into a larger picture.
For instance, you know facts A, B and C. All three facts are consistent with theories
1 and 2, but not theory 3. Thus, theory 3 is false,
while 1 and 2 are both logically possible. If
you learn another fact, and it’s not consistent
with theory 1, then theory 2 is the only
possible final conclusion.
Deductive logic goes at it from the opposite
direction, starting with the big picture. In other
words, assuming that theory 1 is correct, then facts
A, B, and C should be present. If facts A and C are
present, but not B, then theory 1 is proven false and
another theory must be developed to explain the
facts as they are known.
In practice, using both forms of logic
together is very effective for analyzing clues, since each
has its merits and flaws. For instance, inductive logic is
like taking pieces of a puzzle and fitting them together.
However, the pieces may fit in more ways than one, giving
any number of possible outcomes. Deductive logic begins with the
puzzle already put together. If the picture is true, then all the pieces of
the puzzle should be present somewhere. However, you may only have
available a few of the pieces, so the others are only assumed to exist. This
presents an opportunity to test the theory, however. If a deductive
assumption predicts the existence of certain facts, you only have to go find
these facts, or facts to the contrary, to help prove or disprove your theory.
Mythic tends more toward the inductive model. Characters are presented
with facts throughout the adventure. When a new question arises, the current
set of applicable facts helps determine, in an inductive way, what the big
picture may be.
Randomness
18

-- 18 of 54 --

Randomness
19
Context: The player characters are treasure seekers
digging around in an ancient tomb. They are in a
room with frightening stone statues and strange
carvings on the walls.
Event Focus: Ambiguous Event.
Event Meaning: “transform reality”
Interpretation: The characters all experience the same
vision where the room suddenly becomes shining and
beautiful, as though new. They see people rustling about,
as if this were an active temple. As suddenly as it came
on, the vision goes away. Since this is an “ambiguous
event,” the vision doesn’t seem to offer any useful
information, such as where treasure or traps are.
Context: Captain Stupendous has pursued the evil Dr.
Nefarious to his lair high atop a New York skyscraper.
Captain Stupendous hovers over the lair, debating what to
do next.
Event Focus: NPC Action. There are 3 NPCs on the
character list: Dr. Nefarious; Nefarious’ henchmen; the
Team of Justice. Rolling, we get the second character, the
henchmen.
Event Meaning: “fight of home”
Interpretation: Interpreting the meaning to refer to Dr.
Nefarious concerned that the Captain has discovered his
“home,” henchmen suddenly appear on the rooftop and
begin firing at the Captain, to fight for their home.
Context: Jim Diamond, a secret agent, has broken into the
luxury offices of Maxit, a firearms production company
suspected of providing weapons to terrorists. He has
hacked into their mainframe computer and is trying to
access their secret files.
Event Focus: Player character Negative. Since Jim is the
only PC in this adventure, this means him.
Event Meaning: “succeed of evil”
Interpretation: As Jim works on the computer, the lights
suddenly turn on. He looks up to see three armed men in
the room, pointing guns at him. In walks Mr. Maxit himself
with a sneer. “You thought we didn’t know about your
snooping, Mr. Diamond. You thought wrong!”
Context: Their spaceship infested with deadly aliens, the
characters desperately barricade themselves in the life-
support room. They plan to close the room off and flood
the rest of the ship with poison gas through the ventilation
system, hoping to wipe the aliens out.
Event Focus: Introduce a new NPC.
Event Meaning: “failure of a plot”
Interpretation: A locker suddenly opens and the
characters nearly pee their pants when Crewman Jenkis
leaps out. The characters thought everyone else on board
was dead, but Jenkis has been hiding in the closet.
Frantic, but glad to see them, he casually informs the
characters that he had already tried the poison air trick,
but it didn’t work because the ship’s filters automatically
clean the poison out of the air as it goes through the
vents. The characters are still mulling over the fact that he
tried it with everyone else still out there ...
Context: Jonathan Stark is a 1920’s occult investigator. It
is midnight, and he is locked in his study, looking over an
ancient and curious volume of blasphemous lore.
Event Focus: Remote event.
Event Meaning: “waste of goals”
Interpretation: Jonathan is searching for a mystic
artifact that has the power to bind demons. He hopes to
use it to stop the rampages of a monster terrorizing the
local village. He had expected to discover from the book
where the relic lies. However, this random event is
interpreted to mean that the book tells a tale of how the
device was destroyed in a great battle, centuries before.
Stark closes the book, determined to find another way
to stop the beast.
Context: Sir Trent and his band of adventurers are
searching a cavernous catacomb for a princess
kidnapped by an evil mage.
Event Focus: Move toward a thread.
Event Meaning: “guide a path”
Interpretation: The hall branches in two directions, and
they are not sure which way to go. Sir Trent notices
something on the ground and picks it up. It’s the
princess’ shoe. He smiles. “I think I know which hall
they took her down.”
Context: A modern day mage in the midnight streets of
Los Angeles is searching an alley for a secret portal to
another dimension.
Event Focus: Player Character Positive.
Event Meaning: “inform travel”
Interpretation: “You’ll never find it over there,” a gruff
voice says in the darkness. The mage sees a homeless
man rise from the garbage. He rubs his finger across a
wall and suddenly a glowing door appears. The mage
stares at the guy, who is obviously more than he seems.
Random Event Examples

-- 19 of 54 --

T his section provides the structure for running a
Mythic adventure. You’ve got the basics on how to
ask Mythic questions and how to answer them
using the Fate Chart. Now, it’s time to put it all together.
The structure outlined in this chapter is designed to
generate a dynamic, and improvised, adventure. These
rules can be used by a game master to help come up with
adventures off the cuff, offering as much surprise to the
GM as to the players. Or, players can do away with the
GM and use these rules to generate their own adventures.
Improvised means “free-form,” right? Not necessarily.
Mythic is designed to move the adventure along based on
improvised ideas, but it provides a structured framework
to guide and shape those ideas. This isn’t “making it up
as you go along” so much as hopping from one idea to the
next with rules to navigate the way. The current idea is
the current scene, the action of the moment. You may
have some clue as to what the next idea is, but you won’t
know what happens for sure until you get there.
This may sound confusing right now. But it all makes
sense in the end.
To start, let’s take a look at how Mythic views time.
S CENES
Mythic gameplay is visualized like a movie with an
adventure session broken into scenes. Just like in a movie,
a scene takes place at a certain location, involving certain
characters, and covers a certain segment of action.
Usually unimportant stuff is left out of a scene and only
the good stuff gets shown. When the action is over and
the characters are ready to move on the scene ends and
we proceed to the next scene.
Mythic works the same way. A scene setting is
envisioned, the characters resolve conflicts within the
scene then it wraps up and everyone moves on. A scene is
a discrete unit of time within an adventure, but it can be
of any length. The scene, in game time, can last a few
minutes or many years. The important thing is that each
scene must have a purpose. Perhaps the characters have
come across a room while exploring a dungeon. They
pause to check the room out. This is a scene. When they
are done, and all actions have been resolved, the scene is
over.
The simplest way to move from scene to scene is for
20
Chapter 4
The Adventure
The End is Near ...
Below are some example scenes emphasizing
where they begin and where they end. The
important concept to keep in mind is that a scene
begins with a setup and ends when action and
conflict have been resolved.
Scene 1
Setup: A band of superheroes is breaking into the
stronghold of a villain. They discovered an airduct in
the previous scene. This scene begins with the
heroes crawling inside, entering the building. The
scene proceeds with the heroes making their way
inside and searching.
Ending: Since the point of this scene is the heroes
getting into the stronghold, once they’ve
accomplished this, the scene is over. The players
may stretch the scene out with some preliminary
exploration of the stronghold to get some flavor for
what it’s like (“the halls are made of chrome and
strips of light glow dimly from the ceiling”), but the
next scene will likely deal with initial encounters.
Scene 2
Setup: Earlier in the adventure of a mecha/military
game, the players discovered that the alien Battle
Pods were staging an attack. This new scene begins
with the characters jumping into their War Mechs
and charging onto the battlefield. The action for this
scene is straightforward: combat.
Ending: The scene ends when the battle ends. Either
the aliens are beat back or the players stage a
desperate retreat.
Bottom line
There are no hard and fast rules for what constitutes
the beginning and ending of a scene, there are just
guidelines. The scene structure is designed to help give
the adventure shape. The most important rule of thumb
is simply to end a scene where it seems natural, and
that usually means when the main activity of the scene
is concluded.

-- 20 of 54 --

the characters themselves to physically move. However,
they don’t have to. Time can pass and move characters to
the next scene while they remain in the same physical
location. For instance, characters travelling through the
woods make camp for the night. They rest up, and the
scene ends. The next scene takes place in the morning as
they get up and prepare for the day.
Just like in movies, scenes should be about important
events. If a scene is nothing more than walking along a
path maybe you should just skip it and go ahead to the
next scene which is probably more interesting. You won’t
be missing out on anything and you won’t shortchange
your characters the opportunity for an unforeseen
encounter. Remember that Mythic builds random events
into adventures and they can happen at just about
anytime, so you don’t need to pepper your adventure with
boring scenes just to see if anything happens. Stick to
what’s important and interesting.
In Mythic, it is up to the gamemaster to decide what
the next scene will probably be about. Or, if there is no
GM, the players decide. However, Mythic will throw a
wrench in the works on its own to keep the players on
their toes, changing the scene or diverting the players to
unexpected scenes.
The Adventure
21
There are two approaches players can take to the
sequence of their scenes. They should decide before the
adventure session begins which style suits them best.
Simulation
The simulation approach is like most role-playing
games, where the action happens linearly and players
only see what their characters see. With this style each
scene will follow the next in chronological order.
For example:
Scene 1: A platoon of space marines land on a
distant world on a rescue mission to find a lost ship
and its crew.
Scene 2: They begin searching the barren landscape for
signs of the crashed ship. They find evidence of life
where there shouldn’t have been any.
Scene 3: Following up on this evidence, the marines
make their way to a range of rocky mountains where
they have their first run-in with a race of aliens
composed of organic metal.
Scene 4: The marines decide there may be a connection
between the aliens and the lost ship. They track the
aliens to a main cave and learn they live underground.
Scene 5: The marines venture underground, beating
back marauding aliens along the way.
Cinematic
Players may also choose to go cinematic. Here, you
can play scenes out of linear order, or play scenes
where the player characters are not even present. In
cinematic play, the scenes follow in order of interest,
not time.
Cinematic play is a fun alternative because the
adventure will run like a movie or a book, constantly
focusing on what is most interesting and entertaining.
Perhaps the next scene is a flashback to a previous
event. Or, action is taking place somewhere else and
the players are just curious as to what may be
happening. The cinematic style makes more demands
on the players, however. Their characters are not
aware of events occurring beyond them so they cannot
act on this information. These “cut scenes” are more
for the players’ interest to flesh out the adventure.
Much of the action from these scenes where the
characters are actually not present will be determined
by asking fate questions.
To reprise our previous example:
Scene 1: This is a setup scene, where we see the crew
of the soon to be lost ship orbiting an alien world
when, suddenly, alarms start blaring. Through a series
of fate questions the players determine that the ship
inexplicably malfunctions and begins to plummet to the
rocky surface below.
Scene 2: Our platoon of player character marines set
out on a rescue mission and to find out what
happened.
Scene 3: They begin their search, and find evidence of
life on the planet.
Scene 4: A short scene with a lone, non-player
character wandering off from the main platoon. He is
examining a strange flower when a shadow falls over
him. His blood-curdling scream and death at the hands
of an alien monster is the first sign to the others that
they are not alone.
Scene 5: The marines track the aliens to their cave ...
Cinematic Play Versus Simulation

-- 21 of 54 --

T HE 	S ETUP
Your players are assembled, the characters are ready to
roll and everyone is set to begin a Mythic adventure. The
first thing to do is to come up with scene number one. As
with any movie, TV show or book, the very first scene of
the production is vitally important. It sets the tone for
everything that will follow. Chances are, the first scene
will give the characters whatever “mission” that they will
follow through for the rest of the adventure.
If you’ve got a GM, then it’s her job to come up with
the first scene. If there is no GM, then the players need
to come up with something. You’ve got two options in
this department: make something up, or roll something
up.
If you make it up, keep in mind that the scene does
not have to be very complex. You don’t need to take all
week to create a multi-layered plot. Mythic is all about
improvisational role-playing. Just take a few minutes to
concoct an interesting concept, or even just a few
interesting ideas for a starting scene. For instance, a
group of players are running a space-opera style of game.
They devise the following initial scene to their
adventure: “The characters are traveling through an
asteroid belt to find a rare deposit of Trendite, an ore
vital to faster-than-light space travel.” In this example,
the players have a clear idea of what is expected of them,
while giving just enough information to allow them to
make the next move.
If you are truly playing off the cuff, and want to be
surprised from the get-go, use a random event to set up
the initial scene. Generate a random event, just as
discussed in Chapter 3, and use this as the setup for the
scene. Since you are generating a random event out of
thin air, without any context or other events to compare
it with, you will have a wide range of interpretations to
make. I suggest you aim for the most exciting
interpretation you can.
For instance, with our space marines, the players
decide to roll up a random scene setup. They get the
following results:
• Event Context: Since the adventure hasn’t started
yet, the context is the characters themselves. We know
they’re marines and they go where they are told to go.
Semper Fi!
• Event Focus: PC negative. There are three players in
the game, so they randomly determine that the character
named “Tristan” is the focus. Tristan is a buff, macho
marine who loves his big guns.
• Event Meaning: Action: “Inspect.” Subject: “Love.”
The players take all of this together and come up with
this interpretation: Tristan has a former love interest who
is an important scientist. They broke up a year ago, but
he still carries a flame for her. Word gets to Tristan’s team
that communications with the the colony world she is
working on have been lost. No one knows why. Tristan
and the boys decide to suit up and head on out there to
see what has become of the colony.
Keep in mind that the setup should establish a goal for
the characters to attain. The setup shouldn’t be: “Okay,
we’re just sitting around. What happens next?” It should
set in motion the central conflict that the players will
spend the rest of the adventure trying to solve.
It’s best to keep a scene setup as detail-free as possible.
Maybe just an interesting idea or two, that’s it. For
instance, the classic “You wake up in a hotel room and
have no idea who you are” is about as simple as it gets.
The less the players know about what’s going on, the
better, so that you can spend the adventure figuring all of
that out. Whatever goal the setup generates may not
even remain the main goal of the adventure. In our first
space example, the characters may set out to recover the
ore, and end up sidetracking on a mission to save an
interstellar princess. The first scene setup got the ball
rolling, but players will spend the rest of the adventure
seeing where it leads.
Lists
Once you’ve announced the setup, it’s time to get your
lists in order. Lists catalog important details about the
adventure that change from scene to scene. Lists include:
characters, threads, and chaos. By the way, you’ll find at
the back of this book a handy form to make it easier to
keep track of adventure details (see sample on page 49).
List 1: Characters
Keep track of all of the NPCs who pop up during an
adventure. At the end of each scene during an adventure,
you will review this list and add any more NPCs who
premiered during that scene and remove anyone who has
exited the adventure (usually, this means they’re dead).
For instance, from the space marines the list after their
first scene might include: “NPC marines; crew from the
lost ship; the marines’ superiors on Earth; non-military
ship crew.”
Characters added to the list should include anyone
who actually makes an appearance in the scene and
anyone who is mentioned. For instance, we included the
marine’s superiors in the list above even though they
were not physically present in the scene. The fact that
they were mentioned during the scene, because they gave
the order to go after the ore, is enough to get them on
the list.
The Adventure
22

-- 22 of 54 --

Characters on the list don’t have to be individuals or
“people.” They can be any entity that is capable of
independent action. Your character list from a modern
day crime adventure may include: Police Officer Jeffrey;
the murderer, identity unknown; Miss Scarlet, the
witness; tenants in apartment building where the murder
occured; the City Council, which has taken an interest in
the murder investigation, etc.
There will be times when you have to randomly
choose a character from this list (for random
events). Just roll a die closest to the number of
characters on the list, or use whatever fashion
you are accustomed to. Every character on
the list has the same odds of being chosen,
so the method is up to you.
Special Note:
PC Character Lists
There is a special, additional
character list you should keep.
Every player character should
have his own list of
important NPCs that is
included on his character
sheet. These are people and
entities that play major roles in
that character’s life. They may
include family and friends,
comrades, foes and enemies,
organizations he is a member of,
or just about anything. Who
and what are on this list is up
to the player, but the list
should only contain the most
important characters in his life.
For instance, a superhero may have a
personal list composed of: “Cloe Doe, girlfriend;
Marauder, arch-nemesis; The Daily
Standard, newspaper where his
alter ego works.”
In between adventues, a
player can change his list,
adding characters he has met
from an adventure who may
stick around and removing any
who have left.
Why go to all of this trouble? Easy ... the
first scene of an adventure. You may have
already figured this one out, but what happens if
you use a random event to generate the first
scene, and you get something like, “NPC
action”? You have a problem, because you just
started this adventure and there are no NPC’s
The Adventure
23

-- 23 of 54 --

on the character list. So, you use the player character’s
own personal character lists.
You will only use them when generating a random
event for the first scene of an adventure. Future random
events in later scenes will only use the adventure lists, not
the characters’ personal lists. If there is more than one
character playing, first randomly determine which
character you are going to use the list from, then roll off
their list.
One of the advantages to keeping personal lists like
this is that you will occassionally come up with adventures
that have great personal meaning to a character. Or,
maybe that old villain from three adventures ago suddenly
pops back onto the scene. Personal character lists open
the door to a few more twists and turns.
List 2: Chaos Factor
This isn’t really a list but a single number to keep
track of. It starts at 5 and is modified at the end of each
scene. The higher the chaos factor, the greater likelihood
of a random event occurring and the greater are the odds
of fate questions coming out yes.
At the end of each scene, evaluate how out of control
the scene was. If nothing unexpected happened and the
scene proceeded smoothly, then lower the chaos factor by
one point. If the scene was active, however, with the
unexpected happening and lots of action that the PCs
could not control, increase the chaos factor by one.
If you’re not sure how to judge a scene, then evaluate
it based on how it ended. If it ended well, with the PC’s
in control, then it was less chaotic. If it ended poorly for
The Adventure
24
The current scene: The characters are a band of
medieval elves on their way to rescue the fairy queen
from the evil orcs who have imprisoned her. In the
current scene, the characters successfully navigated
their way through the Dim Wood, a dangerous and
treacherous place.
List maintenance (Characters): Add fairy queen,
orcs, woodland monsters.
List maintenance (Chaos): The experience in the
Wood was wild, so they add 1 to chaos.
List maintenance (Threads): No new threads
develop, the current thread remains unresolved.
The players decide to...: Since they didn’t make it
through the wood unscathed, they decide to find a
nearby town, hole up in an inn, and get some rest and
supplies.
The next scene: The scene begins in the streets of
Anderval. There is no need to role-play the trip from
the Dim Wood to the small city as that is
uninteresting. This scene begins with the characters
arriving at the door of the Hunter Inn.
The current scene: In a Hong Kong action style of
campaign, the characters have blasted their way
through a building full of Yakuza hitmen. They are
searching for a stolen gem, taken by an underworld
boss. In the current scene, the characters finished
dispatching a roomful of thugs as they search the
building. The battle was drawn out enough that the
players decide it constituted a scene in itself.
List maintenance (Characters): Add Yakuza hitmen,
lesser thugs.
List maintenance (Chaos): The scene consisted
mostly of an intense battle, so they add 1 to chaos.
List maintenance (Threads): No new threads
develop, the current thread remains unresolved.
The players decide to...: Continue their search. They
figure that the fight from the last scene was large
enough, they probably finished off most of the guards
in the building. That only leaves the boss and his
bodyguard.
The next scene: It’s only a matter of time before the
characters find the diamond and its new owner. They
decide that this scene is a showdown. They find the
kingpin in his private chamber cradling the stolen
diamond. At his side is the bodyguard, a skilled
marksman with weapons drawn.
The current scene: The characters are soldiers
fighting in a jungle when they run across an ancient
ruin. Inside they find a portal that bursts to brilliant
life as they draw near.
List maintenance (Characters): Friendly soldiers,
enemy soldiers, jungle animals.
List maintenance (Chaos): The players decide that
the ruins represent a safer environment than the
jungle, where the war rages on. They deduct 1 from
chaos.
List maintenance (Threads): The discovery of the
artifact creates a new thread, “What is the artifact?”
The players decide to...: The portal, obviously,
cannot be ignored. The players decide to investigate it
more closely and see what it does.
The next scene: The characters step through the
portal and find themselves transported to another
world.
Examples of Setting the Scene & Maintaining Lists

-- 24 of 54 --

the PCs, then it was more chaotic.
Chaos in an adventure has a way of building like a
snowball. In the beginning of the adventure there may be
little chaos and few random events. But as the scenes roll
on, the chaos factor will likely jump, which will
encourage more chaotic scenes, increasing the factor
higher and so on until the adventure comes to its
climactic end.
The chaos factor cannot drop below 1 or rise higher
than 9. Do not lower it or raise it by more than one point
at a time.
List 3: Threads
A thread is a storyline. Usually your adventure will
start it’s first thread after the first scene. For the space
opera adventure, they would begin with the thread,
“Retrieve the trendite.”
As the adventure continues, more threads may
develop as subplots grow. A thread is considered “open”
as long as it remains unresolved. Usually, the adventure is
over as soon as the main thread is solved, or all of the
open threads are closed.
Keep a list of all open threads. At the end of each
scene, add any new threads that developed out of that
scene, and rub out any threads that were resolved. What
constitutes a new thread is up to the players but it will
always be a quest of some kind. A new thread can relate
to the main thread but it doesn’t have to. For instance, in
a time traveling campaign, the main thread might be to
successfully travel back in time to prevent the
assassination of an important world leader. En route to
the past, the characters’ time-warp machine is damaged.
This creates the new thread of “Fix the time machine,” so
they can return to the future.
Players will occasionally fail to recognize a new thread
and forget to put it on the list. Don’t worry about it. As
long as you catch the important ones, you’re doing well.
Keeping a thread list helps in the generation of random
events but has little function beyond that (other than
helping the players keep track of adventure details, that
is). The better your thread list, the more meat you can
supply to future random events.
Just as with the character list you will occasionally
have to roll a random thread. They all have equal weight
so use whatever method you are accustomed to for rolling
items randomly.
Special Note: PC Thread Lists
Just as player characters will each keep their own
personal list of important NPCs, they should also keep
their own list of personal threads. This may include life
goals, such as “find out who my parents really are,” or
things they want to accomplish, like “find the ancient
Spell of Amarka.”
As with PC character lists, PC thread lists should only
contain items that are the most important to the PCs,
items that define who they are. The players maintain
these lists and can modify them as they wish. These lists
are only used during an adventure’s first scene, whether
to randomly determine the scene or to be used during a
random event in that scene. If the Event Focus indicates
a thread related event, and there are no threads currently
in the adventure list, then randomly choose a PC and
randomly select one of his threads.
This will give you the opportunity to randomly
generate an adventure that will personally impact a
player character and may even resolve a life-long dream
which could dramatically change that charcter forever.
R UNNING SCENES
You’ve got your first scene setup. Now its time to say
“Action!” An entire Mythic adventure is nothing more
than a series of scenes which the characters travel
through one at a time. Each scene leads to the next, until
you reach the very last scene where the central conflict
of the adventure is resolved.
Every scene includes the following steps:
Step 1: Set
the scene
Before a scene can begin, you need to have some idea
just what you think is going to happen. As with all things
Mythic, keep this logical. Based on what has already
happened, what do the players expect this next scene to
be?
The scene setup will usually depend on what the
players decide to do. If your characters are investigating a
murder, the players may decide to question a witness. The
next scene then is at the witness’ home. To help set the
stage you can make all kinds of assumptions about the
scene based on information you already know. In this
case, the players can decide what kind of house the
witness lives in, what kind of neighborhood, etc. to help
flesh out the scene. Use what you already know and apply
a little logic.
When deciding on the scene don’t include too much
detail. Just give enough color to get the scene started.
Details will work themselves out as the scene is played.
The players have a great deal of control regarding the
25
The Adventure

-- 25 of 54 --

nature of scenes. Pretty much, whatever they want the
scene to be, that’s what it will be ... at least, as a starting
point. If you are playing with a GM, he will decide what
the setup is.
This is not the final word on what the scene will be
about, however; the scene setup decides how the scene
might open, not how it unfolds.
Modifying the
scene setup
You’ve got your scene setup, but don’t jump into the
scene just yet. After a scene setup has been floated, it’s
time to see if that idea is modified. Roll 1D10. If you roll
chaos factor or less then the scene is modified. If you roll
higher, then the scene begins just as expected.
This is the time when an adventure can begin to run
out of control for the players. Sure, maybe they plan on
driving to the witness’ house to ask some questions. But,
what if they are followed on the way? What if someone
stops them and asks them a few questions instead?
When you roll to modify a scene, and you get a value
within the chaos factor, then the scene setup you came
up with will be changed; it will either be a variation on
the setup idea you had already come up with, or it will be
an entirely different scene.
If you rolled an odd value number (1,3,5,7,9) then the
scene setup is modified into an altered scene. If you
rolled an even number (2,4,6,8) then it’s an interrupt
scene.
For instance, if the chaos factor is currently 7, then a
roll of 7 or less on a D10 will modify the scene setup. If
the players roll a 1, 3, 5 or 7, then the scene is an altered
scene. If a 2, 4, 6 was rolled, then an interrupt scene
occurs.
Altered scenes
If the scene setup is altered, use logic to figure out
how. The scene that actually begins is not the one you
initially came up with in the scene setup, but the next
most logical scene idea.
For example: The scene setup is a pair of
swashbuckling characters swaggering into a crowded bar
to have a few beers and pry around for information about
a certain famous pirate who has been seen in the waters
lately. The players roll and find that this scene setup is
altered. The most likely alteration, they figure, is that the
bar is actually quite deserted tonight and there isn’t much
opportunity to ask questions.
If, when altering the scene setup, you aren’t quite sure
The Adventure
26
Previous Scene Ending: The character is a detective
who is trying to catch a group of thieves. He has
tracked them to their next job, a bank heist, and arrived
just in time to see them fleeing the bank with the loot.
Following Scene Setup: The detective hops into his car
and chases the bad guys. This results in a high-speed
pursuit through the city.
Altered: Instead of just a standard chase, it turns into a
running gun battle as the bank robbers shoot back at
the pursuing character.
Interrupt: Something happens instead of the expected
chase, and we use a random event to find out what.
Rolling on the event focus chart, we come up with
“Move toward a thread.” The only open thread at the
moment is “Catch the thieves.” So, something happens
to help the detective instead of the chase. Rolling on the
event meaning tables, we get, “delay” and “attention.”
Hmmm .... thinking for a moment, we come up with:
the detective is late to the robbery, but he spots the
thieves’ car as it is driving away. They didn’t notice him,
so he is able to casually follow them along the freeway
to their hideout.
Previous Scene Ending: While enjoying a tankard of
mead at a local tavern a fantasy warrior character gets
in a brawl with a disapproving patron. The fight erupts
into a tavern-wide fiasco, resulting in the character
getting his clock cleaned. He winds up unconscious in
a corner, a bulging bump on his forehead.
Following Scene Setup: The character wakes up in a
dungeon cell, arrested by the local magistrate for
instigating a brawl.
Altered: The players aren’t sure what to do here, so
they phrase the altered scene as a Fate Chart question:
“Does the character wake up in the magistrates office,
instead of his dungeon?”
Interrupt: The event focus table gives us “Ambiguous
event.” The meaning tables give us “excitement” and
“energy.” The interpretation arrived upon is: The
character wakes up to the sound of a woman yelling.
He sees he is still lying on the floor in the tavern. The
owner is being yelled at by his wife, probably over the
bar fight. The tavern is empty, except for the arguing
couple and a few unconscious brawlers such as the
player character.
Sample Scene Ideas Modified

-- 26 of 54 --

what the most logical scene
would be to replace your original setup, then phrase
it as a fate question and check the Chart. This also
makes it more random, but still keeps the options
within the realm of reason. For instance, with the
swashbuckling example above, perhaps the players
phrase the alteration as a question, “Is the bar
deserted?” A yes answer would get the above scenario,
where their quest to ask questions is stymied. A no
means the bar is packed, as expected,
but something else is happening.
Maybe the place is closed for a
“private party.” An exceptional yes
could mean the place has burned down. An
exceptional no might mean there is a riot going on
there.
Interrupt scenes
This is an entirely different, and unexpected, scene
than the scene setup. The characters
were on their way to the scene
setup, but the interrupt scene
preempts it. Since the scene is
unexpected, treat this as a random event (in just the
same way as you might use random events to generate
the very first scene in the adventure). Generate a
random event and consider that the cause of
the interrupt scene. The rest of the
scene is logically built around this
random event.
The interrupt is very different from
the altered scene. In an altered scene, you
are still going with the original scene setup, but with a
twist. An interrupt scene, however, is an entirely
different scenario. The scene setup is tossed
out the window and replaced with this new
one, based off of a random event.
For instance, in our swashbuckling
example above, there are many
interrupt possibilities. Maybe, on their
way to the tavern, the characters are
waylaid by bandits. Or, a stranger
pulls them aside and promises
information about the pirate, for a
price. The possibilities are endless,
and unexpected.
Interrupt scenes are where Mythic adventures begin
throwing big curveballs at players. With the chaos factor
starting at 5, early scenes in an adventure should play out
pretty much as expected. However, if chaos increases, the
adventure will rumble more and more out of control as
characters veer from one unexpected scene to the next.
The Adventure
27

-- 27 of 54 --

Step 2: Play out
the scene
This is the heart of the adventure, where all the action
unfolds. The scene has been determined. Now what
happens?
That’s pretty much up to the players. The scene begins
as dictated by the setup or the modifications. But, that’s
just the beginning of the scene. Now it’s up to the players
to begin asking fate questions and resolving conflicts.
Likely, the first set of questions will involve clarifying
details about the beginning of the scene itself.
For instance, in our murder investigation example, the
players set off to the witness’ house. A player may ask, “Is
the house nice?” They check the Fate Chart and come
back with “Yes.” From that, they interpret that the house
is a nicely kept, two-story home. Then someone asks, “Is
there a car parked out front?” Consulting the chart: “Yes.”
After two questions, they have some detail on what
the scene looks like and what they can expect.
They then decide to walk up to the front door and
knock, asking, “Does the witness answer?” The answer
from the chart is exceptional yes.
Hmmm, exceptional. They decide that the most
logical interpretation is that the witness opens the door
and is very excited to see them, immediately ushering
them into the house. The characters, a little confused by
this reaction, go along with the witness.
The players ask, “Does the witness know who we are?”
The answer: “No.”
They interpret this to mean that the witness has
mistaken them for someone else. The characters decide to
play along with this, pretending to be whoever the
witness thinks they are. Using whatever persuasion skills
they possess, they try to keep the witness talking, then
they ask, “Does the witness talk as if he were a party to
the murder?” Answer: “Yes.”
They interpret that the witness thinks the characters
are also in on the conspiracy. As the scene plays out, the
characters might learn that the murder was a mafia hit
and the witness merely a plant to throw off suspicion.
The witness thinks that the characters are mafia
representatives there to pay him for his services. He is
anxious to get paid so he can leave town.
Scenes progress in this fashion, by asking fate questions
and making logical assumptions, until the main action is
over. In the example above, the scene might end when the
characters are through with the witness and decide to leave.
Mythic, using this scene structure and the Fate Chart,
gives the players all the information they need to realize the
adventure universe. The actual mechanics of game-play,
such as conflict resoltuion and combat, would likely be
handled by a particular rpg game they are using. In the
above example, this may involve communication skill
checks, or even combat if the witness realizes his mistake
and tries to kill the characters. Of course, failing that, they
can always frame a fate question and consult the chart to
resolve gaming issues.
Scene length
The length of a scene is based on the action of the
scene, not the passage of time. Whatever the main purpose
of the scene is, when that business is concluded, then the
scene is concluded. In the example above, the scene takes
as much time as the characters are in the house and until
they are done with the witness. But a scene could last years:
a princess lies in suspended animation until that magic kiss
comes; a dragon slumbers on its hoard until disturbed; a
man searches the world for clues to the identity of the
criminal who killed his wife.
A scene doesn’t require success to reach its end. With
the investigators, they may have arrived at the witnesses
house, asked a few questions, received little information in
return, and left empty-handed. The important thing is that
the purpose of the scene is addressed (meeting the witness)
and is dealt with.
The Adventure
28
Permission is granted by the publisher to copy this page for personal use only
Adventure Notes
Scene Setup 	Lists
Characters
Threads
Chaos Factor
5
Scene #
Scene Setup	Scene # 	Scene Setup	Scene #
Scene Setup	Scene #
Scene Setup	Scene # 	Scene Setup	Scene #
Scene Setup 	Scene Setup	Scene #	Scene #
Summary of Resolving Scenes
• Come up with the Scene Setup.
• Roll 1D10 against Chaos to see if the Setup is modified
as an Altered Scene (odd) or an Interrupt (even).
• Play out the Scene.
• When the main action ends, the Scene ends.
• Update lists: Characters, Threads, Chaos Factor
Adventure summary sheet. Find a full page version on page 51.

-- 28 of 54 --

Scene topics
It’s been stated before, but bears stating again, that a
scene should be about something interesting. Although a
scene should be what logically happens next, you can fast
forward through uninteresting material. For instance,
explorers in a cavern might come upon a room, kill a
monster and find some treasure. The next scene doesn’t
have to be, “Alright, they go out in the hall and walk a
few feet. Anything happen?”
What would make more sense would be a scene setup
like: “They delve deeper into the caverns, wandering
through dark halls until they come across another room
that looks interesting.”
What is important to a scene are interesting bits that
move the adventure along, in the same way that a movie
or novel doesn’t bother staging scenes or chapters on
pointless information. Every scene setup should at least
contain the potential to advance the story.
Cinematic scenes
As stated before, you may want to consider a
cinematic style to your adventure. Most gamers take the
simulationist approach, where scenes follow each other
chronologically and the players know about as much as
their characters do.
A cinematic approach uses techniques found in the
movies: flashback scenes portraying events from the past,
dream sequences, events in remote locations
that the characters are not aware of. Any of
these drama techniques, and more, are
available to you in a cinematic style of game.
The caution is that you really have to want to
play like this and be prepared to limit your
character. You, as the player, will likely learn
information that is impossible for the
character to know or act upon.
Randomness
Mythic is based on logic, but not
everything happens as expected. Random
events, discussed in the previous chapter, will
give your scenes the necessary twists to keep
your characters on their toes. Wherever you
think the adventure might be heading, a
single random event could send it spiraling in
an entirely different direction. Remember,
whenever a double-digit (11, 22, etc.) is rolled
on the Fate Chart, and that digit is within the
range of the chaos factor, then a random
event occurs.
Step 3: End the
scene, update
the lists
When the action ends so does the scene. The scene
should end at a logical break and can cover any amount
of time. If the characters are involved in a boxing match,
each scene may last only as long as a round of the fight.
If the characters were on a long march across the country,
a scene could last weeks.
At the end of each scene, run through the three lists
and update them.
Characters
Scratch out any characters who have dropped out of
the adventure and add any new ones who have appeared
or were mentioned. Remember, this doesn’t just mean
individuals. Characters can be any force in the adventure
with the ability to act on its own. That means crowds,
organizations, anonymous thugs, etc. This also means
adding the less important characters, not just the heavy-
hitters. You never know when that maid you ignored in
the last scene may show up in the dark ... wielding a
knife!
The Adventure
29
Summary of Resolving Scenes
• Come up with the Scene Setup.
• Roll 1D10 against Chaos to see if the Setup
is modified as an Altered Scene (odd) or an
Interrupt (even).
• Play out the Scene.
• When the main action ends, the Scene ends.
• Update lists: 	Characters
Threads
Chaos Factor

-- 29 of 54 --

Chaos
Update the chaos factor based on the level of activity from
the scene and the players’ success. If the scene was out of
control, add 1 to the chaos factor. If the scene was controlled
by the characters, then subtract 1 from the chaos factor.
Chaos stays in a range of 1-9. The chaos factor must move up
or down at the end of each scene unless it is already at 1 or 9.
Threads
Remove completed threads and add new ones. A thread is
complete when the goal has been accomplished or it no
longer matters. If the goal is to rescue the princess, but she
dies when the dragon you slew falls on her, then that pretty
much ends that thread.
Adding new threads is a judgement call for the players.
New sub-plots have a tendancy to develop on their own,
growing out of the action of a scene. It’s up to the players if
this is a plot they wish to pursue.
For instance, the characters are fantasy adventurers
searching for the lost Wand of Varza. Along the way they
spend the night at a peasant’s home. The peasant bemoans
the fact that his son disappeared in the forest days before and
has not returned. The characters can search for him if they
wish, or forget about it and move on. If they decide to find
the boy, then this forms a new thread.
New threads do not necessarily need to have anything to
do with other threads. Multiple threads may all be related, or
not. The important thing is to identify objectives that the
characters deem are important.
SAMPLE SCENE
The following scene is a “transcript” of two players in a
Mythic adventure session. They are playing without a GM.
For the sake of the example, we will assume they are playing
a standard superhero rpg.
The adventure
This adventure teams The Fantasm, a gun-toting anti-
hero who can phase through solid objects, with Mighty May,
a spandex-clad superheroine of tremendous strength. The
pair have teamed up to root out the evil Marzitron, a
sentient robot bent on the eradication of all things human.
The scene
In previous scenes, the two superheroes hunted down
the robot until they discovered he was hiding in the
sewers beneath the city. The players propose the
following scene setup for the next scene: “Fantasm and
May descend into the sewers through public manholes
and begin searching around. The sewers are dank and,
of course, stink.”
The chaos factor is 8. Rolling 1D10, they get 3,
within the range of chaos, which means the scene setup
is modified. They rolled an odd number, so the scene
setup is altered.
Fantasm: “How about, we see a track of footprints in
the sewer, for an altered scene.”
May’s player agrees. The scene isn’t radically different
from the one first envisioned, but different enough to
give the players something additional to work with.
Fantasm: “Are the footprints all going in one
direction?” They decide the odds on this are very likely,
and roll a 22 on the Fate Chart. This results in a yes
answer, but also gives them a random event since they
rolled a double number that is within the chaos range of
8.
Rolling for the event, they get a focus of “Ambiguous
event.” They roll “passion” and “friendship” on the
meaning charts. The two players agree on an
interpretation.
May: “As we climb down a manhole and enter the
sewer, we see there’s a message scrawled on the wall.
‘Jack loves Susan,’ with a crude heart drawn around it.
‘Charming,’ May sighs in her southern drawl. ‘Love in
the sewers.’”
Fantasm: “‘Come on, let’s move,’ Fantasm says gruffly.
We follow the prints in the muck, trying to make as
little noise as possible. I have my twin .45s drawn. We
just keep following the footprints. I assume they will
lead to a room or something. Do they?” This possibility
seems likely. They roll 96, however, above the 95
needed.
May: “They lead directly into a solid wall. The
footprints continue, and then just stop, as if the walker
disappeared.”
Fantasm: “I lean over and examine the footprints
closely. ‘What the hell?’ I muse.”
May: “May looks up, worried there may be something
lurking on the ceiling. Is there?” The odds seem
unlikely, and she rolls an 83. No.
May: “I have an idea. May says to Fantasm, ‘Poke
your head underground, maybe there’s a room below.’”
Fantasm: “I nod and phase out, ducking my head
through the pavement. Do I see a room below?” They
give this question a rank of very unlikely, 65%, and roll
21, a yes.
Fantasm: “I pull my head back up with a grin. ‘You
were right. There must be a trap door here or
something.’ I examine the concrete, looking for secret
mechanisms. Do I find any?” The players use the
mechanics in the rpg they are using to determine if he
The Adventure
30

-- 30 of 54 --

successfully searches out a secret latch. He fails his skill
check.
Fantasm: “I scratch my head in confusion. ‘If there’s a
door here, I can’t figure it out,” I say, annoyed.”
May: “‘Stand back,” I instruct to Fantasm. ‘I’ll do it
the old-fashioned way.’”
Fantasm: “I step back out of the way.”
May: “I lean over and give the floor a heavy-duty
punch, trying to knock through it. ” Again, they use the
rpg mechanics to resolve this.
May: “I easily punch through the floor and drop down
into the room below.”
Fantasm: “I follow her into the room.”
May: “I look around quickly. Does this place look
different from the sewers, all shiny metal like a high-tech
complex?” Since they really have no idea what the odds
for this question would be, they go for 50/50 odds and
roll 55. A yes, but also a random event (chaos is 8).
May: “‘I think we’ve found his hideout,’ I say.” They
check for the random event on the event focus table and
get “Player character Negative.” With two players, they
randomly determine that the player character in
question is Fantasm. Rolling on the event meaning
charts, they get “triumph” and “the phsyical.” They
interpret this to mean that Fantasm gets attacked.
Fantasm: “Does Marzitron himself attack?” The odds
seem very unlikely, since the master robot has used
minions to do nearly all of his dirty work in the past.
They roll a 71, for a no.
The next most logical idea is that they have stumbled
upon a guard, who attacks Fantasm. Instead of assuming
what kind of guard it is, they decide to form this as
another fate question.
Fantasm: “Is the guard a robot, maybe kind of a
spidery thing that was lurking near the ceiling, which is
why we didn’t notice it at first?” Odds are 50/50, and
they roll 43 for a yes.
The players enter combat with the guard robot, using
the rules in their super hero rpg. The combat is fairly
straightforward, not requiring any additional questions
from the Fate Chart. After Fantasm squeezes off a few
shots and May knocks the guard around a bit, they finish
the robot off.
May: “I smash it against the wall and it explodes in a
spray of sparks and metal pieces. ‘Take that, you darn
spider. I hate spiders!’”
Fantasm: “‘Well done,’ I say. Is there a door out of
here?” The odds of this are a near sure thing, and they
roll 52. Yes.
Fantasm: “We head for the door, keeping a wary
lookout for more guards.”
Since they have successfully searched the sewers and
found the hideout, this ends the main action of the
scene. The next scene would involve them looking
deeper into the headquarters, perhaps finding the evil
robot, and so on. Ending the scene, they run through
their lists quickly and make the following changes:
Characters: Add Robot Guards to the list.
Threads: No changes here.
Chaos factor: This scene was chaotic, with the robot
attack, but the characters remained firmly in control
throughout. This lowers the factor from 8 to 7.
A note about asking
questions
The scene struture described in this chapter is fairly
simple and straightforward. The idea is to drive the
action forward with as little clutter as possible. What
makes everything work, however, is asking questions of
the Fate Chart.
Players will quickly find, however, a tendancy to want
to ask more and more questions to get more specific
results. This can lead to bogging down the game when
you really don’t have to. Very rarely should you have to
ask more than one question to get a good final answer.
Keep in mind that when you ask a question, there are
four possible results from the Fate Chart: yes, no,
exceptional yes and exceptional no. This alone gives you
a fairly wide range of potential outcomes with just one
question. For instance, in a game where the characters
are FBI agents pursuing terrorists, a character walks into
a room and encounters one of the men he had been
chasing. The player asks, “Is the man armed?” Given the
four possible answers from the Fate Chart, you could
have the following results:
• Yes: He is armed with the most likely weapon, a
handgun.
• No: He is unarmed, and probably surprised to see
the agents.
• Exceptional yes: He is armed with something
mightier than a handgun, a submachine gun.
• Exceptional no: Not only is he not armed, he’s
asleep in his bed.
To keep the game flowing smoothly, you should limit
yourself to asking no more than a single question of the
Fate Chart to answer a question. In the example above,
all of the potential answers are plenty to satisfy the
dramatic needs of the scene. Any additional specifics,
such as exactly what type of handgun is he wielding, is
there a full clip of bullets in the weapon, etc. can be
handled through sheer logic. Just make the most
reasonable assumptions based on the results of that one
question.
The Adventure
31

-- 31 of 54 --



-- 32 of 54 --

Emuwhat?
S
o, you all want to be players, and no one wants to run
the show. Well, that’s just great. The Mythic
adventure engine is designed to build games off the
cuff, making the game master’s life easier. Or, these same
tools can be used to replace the GM entirely. After all, a
GM can use the Mythic engine to develop an adventure
even if he doesn’t know any more about what’s going on
than the players do. It’s not a far cry to cut out the GM
entirely.
If you want to try playing without a GM, this chapter
offers some suggestions that might make the adventure run
smoother.
First ideas
You can come to the gaming table armed with only your
character and nothing else. In fact, it’s often best if you
don’t have any clear ideas for an adventure. You may have a
first scene setup idea in mind, or you may decide to generate
it randomly as detailed in the adventures chapter. Whatever
idea you come up with doesn’t have to make a lot of sense.
You don’t even have to know what it means. The point is to
come up with something and see what unfolds from there.
For instance, some first scene setup ideas:
• “The players are called in by the FBI to investigate a
mysterious murder. The body was found with strange
occult symbols drawn across it and other oddities that
government investigators cannot explain. They are
seeking the help of the characters.”
• “The characters wake up in a hotel room with no
memory and no possessions besides the clothes on their
back. There is a set of keys on the dresser, a video store
rental card with the name ‘Sue’ on it, and a bloody
knife on the floor.”
• “The characters are hanging out in a tavern when a
cloaked figure approaches. He plops a bag of gold on
the table, sits and explains he wants to hire the group
to eradicate a nest of goblins that are marauding the
countryside.”
As you can see from the examples above, some ideas offer
more information than others. Regardless of the content,
each idea is a seed that can lead anywhere. It’s all up to the
players and the questions they ask.
Taking a hint from the movies
The first scene setup should be interesting, whether
the players understand it or not. Of course, you could
start with, “We are walking along a dirt road on a
pleasant afternoon. The sun is shining, the birds are
singing.” This could still work as a setup, but it is bland
and doesn’t spark the imagination. Starting from such a
place is, in a sense, begging the dice to throw in some
random events to take the adventure in a more intriguing
direction.
To get the action started faster come up with
something that ignites your interest. For inspiration, just
think about nearly any movie you have ever viewed. The
opening scene almost always sets the tone for the whole
movie.
If you are playing a cinematic Mythic adventure, then
the first scene doesn’t have to flow sequentially with the
rest of the adventure, and it doesn’t even have to involve
the player characters directly. It might even be a
flashback. For instance, the scene setup might be: “In 469
BC, King Musdah of the desert city of Kasmar sealed into
a tomb the Ocular of Anzla, an amulet said to be made
from the eye of an evil, dead god. The king so feared the
relic that the tomb was sealed and hidden beneath the
sands, and all who worked to build it were killed to
protect the secret.” Boom, there you go. This scene might
lead into an archaeological dig, involving the characters,
where the tomb is discovered in modern times.
Where to go
from here
There is really not much difference between playing a
Mythic game with a GM and without. Whether you use a
GM or not, you still ask yes/no questions for all
situations, and they are resolved using the Fate Chart.
Without a GM, however, the players are responsible for
interpreting the answers as opposed to a single person
shouldering the responsibility. Logic is still the prime rule
when interpreting the yes/no question results.
Scenes progress the same way, also. Players travel
through a scene, asking yes/no questions along the way,
until the scene runs out of steam. The players wrap up
the scene, adjust the NPC list, the threads list and the
33
Chapter 5
GM Emulation

-- 33 of 54 --

chaos factor. Then they proceed to the next scene,
deciding what they think it should be, and then rolling
the dice and seeing if that is actually what happens.
Playing this way is clearly not the same as playing with
a well-prepared GM. Nevertheless, the experience can be
the same, if not better. The adventure still progresses
along logical lines. The players are still embroiled in a
mystery that unfolds before their eyes, scene by scene,
and which will eventually lead to an answer. Just because
that mystery, and those answers, don’t objectively exist
yet in the real world does not make them any less real
when they reveal themselves to the players.
The gaming
experience
Since you, the player, are in near-total control of the
adventure, there is a degree of responsibility you have to
toe. If you are a powergamer this may not work out so
well for you. After all, without a GM, you have free reign
to manipulate events nearly any way you wish. This
doesn’t sound like much fun, however.
Your best gaming experiences will come when you
approach the adventure with a character you like and an
open mind to what can happen. It doesn’t matter
whether you are a cinematic type of player, or a
simulationist, you both want to know the same thing:
what happens next? You should ask the types of questions
that will move the adventure forward, instead of
questions that manipulate the rules and will help your
character the most.
The example
Enough babble, let’s get down to an example.
Following is a transcript of two
players adventuring with Mythic
and without a GM. For the sake of
argument, we won’t mention the
actual role-playing game the players are
using, we’ll just reference adventure events
as they unfold. The adventure is set in the
modern world with a dark, magical twist. The
character Michael is an FBI agent who
investigates occult murders. Sara is an occultist
herself who has teamed up with Michael. She
possesses a range of mystic talents.
To create the first scene, the players decide to
generate it randomly. They come up with: remote event,
expose, death. They interpret these results to come up
with the following first scene: “Michael and Sara are
investigating the murder of a homeless man in New
York city. His body is found with the heart removed
and strange runes chalked on the sidewalk around
him.”
As you can see, they decided not to take a
mundane interpretation of the results but a more
extreme one, adding details such as the runes and
the grisly method the man was killed. This is a
smart move for the first scene to get the plot off to
a good, exciting start, as long as the interpretation
fits the results that were rolled.
As the scenes unfold, Michael and Sara
GM Emulation
34

-- 34 of 54 --

GM Emulation
35
Campaign background: A race of insect-like aliens
have invaded the Earth, destroying human civilization.
Those who have not been captured and enslaved live
in the wastelands, desperate to stay alive.
First scene setup: The characters are captured by a
village of humans. The players decide to play the
game cinematically and set up the scene just before
they are captured, so they can role play the event.
Their characters are making their way across a desert
when they are ambushed. They will put up a good
fight, but will be outnumbered, so the odds are
hopeless. However, the ambushers will not kill the
characters, but take them hostage.
Where the players may go from here: With their
capture inevitable in the first scene, the characters
may still get a little banged up. Subsequent scenes
may involve them negotiating with the village elders
on the terms of their release, a period of healing, or
the characters’ own plans to escape. Perhaps the
characters escape and are so embittered by the
experience, they side with the aliens long enough to
wipe the village out. Or, maybe the characters
discover the village elders are in league with the
aliens.
Campaign background: The characters are
investigators of the paranormal in a modern setting.
First scene setup: The characters have been invited
to dinner at the home of a wealthy friend. The house
is a mansion deep in a secluded forest. At the dinner,
which involves ten other people, the host declares that
he believes one of his friends is an extradimensional
monster who has been prowling the earth for
centuries, feeding on the souls of innocents. He
cannot figure out who it is, since the monster seems
human in most respects. So, he will let his guests
figure out who among them is a monster. If no one
can prove to him by midnight who the creature is, the
house is rigged to blow up, killing all inside. The
doors and windows are all locked and barred; there is
no escape. The players decide on a lengthier scene
setup and to start the action at the dinner table, after
the host makes his announcement. This scene will
mostly involve watching the reactions of all of the
guests, and learning a little about who they are.
Where the players may go from here: The players
will likely either play their hosts game, and try to
figure out who the monster is, or they will decide their
friend is insane and try to find a way out of the
mansion before it blows sky high. Either way, the
adventure will likely end with the characters learning
whether their host was correct, or mad.
Campaign background: The characters are American
secret agents.
First scene setup: The characters are suddenly
arrested by their own agency. It appears they are
accused of murdering a US Congressman and of
being double-agents. The first scene can involve the
characters’ incarceration, and their plans to escape.
Where the players may go from here: The characters
know they are being framed, and must escape and
prove their innocence. A former teammate who
believes them may help free them so they can prove
their own innocence. Anyone could have framed the
characters, from an old enemy to a new one who just
wanted to pin the murder on someone else, to the
friend who helps them escape. The characters will
likely use personal contacts to discover their initial
clues, and take it from there.
Campaign background: The character is a normal,
everyday man in modern America.
First scene setup: The character has been attacked
by a wolf in the woods and bitten. The man wanders
helpless and finds a light through the trees that leads
to a small house. Their he discovers an old woman
who, upon seeing his wounds, shuns him, but not
before informing him of what his fate will become.
She says he has been bitten by a werewolf! She
proves it to him by showing him a mirror and pointing
out his extended canines and his own desire for live
meat.
Where the player may go from here: Gleaning a clue
or two from the old woman, the character may seek
out myth experts and other sources of werewolf lore
to learn of a cure. Once he does, the rest of the
adventure involves his quest to cure himself, perhaps
running across others like him, or even becoming the
target of werewolf hunters, who would rather destroy
him than help cure him.
Sample adventure openings

-- 35 of 54 --

discover that there have been two other similar murders
that had gone underreported, each victim with his heart
removed. Checking some of her resources, Sara identifies
the runes as Aztec in origin and discovers the treatment
of the bodies is similar to some ancient, Aztec rights to
appease cruel gods.
We pick up
now at the
beginning of
Scene 4, with the
setup: “Check
Sara’s theories
with an expert.
Seek out an
expert at a local
university.”
Michael’s
Player: “That
sounds like a good
scene setup. Let’s
check it.” Before
starting the scene,
he checks against
the chaos factor
to see if the scene
setup is modified.
Chaos is 2, he
rolls a 1D10 and
gets a 2. This
means an
interrupt. They
have to roll a
random event to
see what
interrupted the
expected scene.
He rolls on the
Event Focus Table
and gets,
“Character
action.” He rolls
among the four
characters in the
list and comes up
with Agent
Summers,
Michael’s contact
with the FBI who
helped him
uncover the
information on
the previous
murders.
Checking the Event Meaning tables, he gets, “oppress”
and “the intellectual.”
Sara’s Player: “Hmm, that’s an interesting one. Sounds
like he’s gone insane.”
MP: “Yeah. We get a call from Summers, sounding
agitated. He’s been working on the case and wants to
GM Emulation
36
Permission is granted by the publisher to copy this page for personal use only
Scene Setup Lists
Characters
Threads
Chaos Factor
5
Scene
Scene Setup	Scene
	Scene Setup	Scene
Scene Setup	Scene
Scene Setup	Scene 	Scene Setup	Scene
Scene Setup	Scene 	Scene Setup	Scene
Summary of Resolving Scenes
• Come up with the Scene Setup.
• Roll 1D10 against Chaos to see if the Setup is modified as an
Altered Scene or an Interrupt.
• Play out the Scene.
• When the main action ends, the Scene ends.
• Update lists: 	characters
Threads
Chaos Factor
• Award Favor Points (0, 10, or 25)
1
Michael and Sara investigate
the murder of a homeless
man in New York.
Michael uses police contacts
to review other murder
records, looking for similar
cases.
Sara reviews her textbooks,
looking for the meaning of
the runes.
Visit an agitated Agent
Summers, who might have a
lead.
2
3 	4
Detective Richards, NYPD
Officer Daniels, NYPD
Reginald Morrow
Agent Brian Summers, FBI
Find the killer.
2
Adventure Worksheet
Summary of Resolving Scenes
• Come up with the Scene Setup.
• Roll 1D10 against Chaos to see if the Setup is modified
as an Altered Scene (odd) or an Interrupt (even).
• Play out the Scene.
• When the main action ends, the Scene ends.
• Update lists: Characters, Threads, Chaos Factor
Adventure Notes

-- 36 of 54 --

meet us at a hotel. When we get there, the place is a
mess and he’s acting very strangely.”
SP: “Sounds good. Sara eyes the hotel room as
Summers lets them in. Are there papers and files
anywhere? I figure this is very likely, given the setup.”
With the chaos factor so low, she rolls on the Fate Chart
against an odds rank of very likely. She rolls an 84, a no.
MP: “I guess it just looks messy then, bed unmade,
coffee cups, but not a total wreck. How does Summers
look? Is he manic, talking fast?” They figure the odds on
this are very likely, and roll a 2 for an exceptional yes.
SP: “Sara is alarmed by Summers, who is wild-eyed
and barely coherent.”
MP: “He’s talking so fast, moving about the room
aimlessly. Michael tries to understand what Summers is
ranting about. Does any of it make sense?” He uses a
mechanic from the RPG they are using to determine if
Michael can understand the raving Summers. He fails his
roll.
MP: “Michael shakes his head at Sara, shrugging. He
approaches Summers and says in his most soothing voice,
‘Calm down, buddy. Why don’t you sit on the bed and
start at the top.’ Do I get him to calm down?” Again,
they use a game mechanic to see if Michael succeeds.
Michael does succeed in the attempt and calms Summers
down.
SP: “Oh, good. He calms down a little, sitting on the
bed, still chattering away though. While Michael talks to
him, Sara will casually drift about the room, looking for
any files or exposed papers. Does she see anything
interesting?” They decide the odds are likely, and rolls a
95, an exceptional no.
MP: “Does that mean the room is exceptionally
uninteresting?”
SP: “More likely, I just don’t see anything unusual. I
can’t think of an exceptional result.”
MP: “I ask Summers if he called us because he
discovered the killer.” This seems very unlikely, and they
roll a 47, for a no.
SP: “Sara speaks softly to Summers, and asks him if he
was trying to warn us. Are we getting close to something
and it’s getting dangerous for us?” They assign this a
likelihood of somewhat likely and roll a 5, an exceptional
yes.
MP: “Exceptional, great. He gets nuts again, jumps up,
ranting about how all our lives are in danger. We need to
flee New York immediately.”
SP: “Danger from whom? Sara asks him. Does he say?”
They give this 50/50 odds and roll a 27 for a no.
MP: “He’s too bonkers, and isn’t listening to Sara.”
SP: “Is Summers afraid?” They assign this odds of very
likely and roll 68 for a no. Sara’s player interprets this
result to mean that Summers is acting out of anger, not
fear.
MP: “If angry, then he must be angry at us. Summers
says, ‘You’re messing around with stuff you don’t
understand. You’re gonna get us all killed!’”
SP: “Sara tenses up at Summers’ tone. She studies him
closely. Is he armed?” Summers is an FBI agent, so they
decide on likely odds and roll a 4, an exceptional yes.
“Uh-oh. He’s got one gun in a shoulder holster, visible
with his open coat, and another gun on the nightstand
near the bed.”
MP: “Is he behaving threateningly toward us now?”
Given the previous conclusion about his anger toward
the characters, and his manic behavior, they decide on
very likely odds and roll a 67, for a no.
SP: “The low chaos factor coming to our rescue. OK,
so he’s ticked off and telling us to back off the case, but
he’s not threatening. He’s just one freaked out guy.”
MP: “Michael tells him, ‘We can’t back off this case.
But if you’re so worried then you’re free to run.’ Does he
accept this?” Given Summers’ anger and attitude, they
decide the odds are unlikelly and roll a 66 for a no. They
rolled a double digit, but since the single number (“6”) is
greater than the chaos factor, no random event is
generated.
SP: “He gets angrier...”
The above scene would continue playing out until
Michael and Sara were done with Summers, at which
point the main action for the scene would be over,
ending the scene. Since this scene was an interrupt, the
players are free to make the next scene setup the same
one they had tried before. Or, if they learned something
interesting from Summers, they may decide to go off in a
different direction.
The players in this scene asked the questions they
needed answered to move the scene along. When a
question was answered on the Fate Chart, the first player
with a ready interpretation threw it out.
The players didn’t rely on the Fate Chart for every
detail. This is where logic comes into play. It’s also the
area where a game master usually does most of his work,
generating details. Many of the smaller, colorful details
don’t matter much in the long run, so there is no harm in
running along with an improvised description if it seems
fitting. Both players here ad-libbed some, describing
Summers’ demeanor and the condition of his hotel room.
However, even though they made up these details, the
facts they came up with still fit the results of the Fate
Chart and were consistent with the context of the
adventure.
GM Emulation
37

-- 37 of 54 --

J ust because Mythic adventures are created off the cuff
is no reason why you have to stop at just one
scenario. Mythic can be used to create an entire
campaign, or even the setting itself. Creating the world
that your characters adventure within can be as simple,
or complex, as you want it to be. Many players come to
the table with a highly prepared game master armed with
complete data on a very realized gaming universe. Others
come to the table with a few ideas and the desire to have
fun.
There is no right way to approach gaming, it is all a
matter of style. Mythic, however, caters to the other
players, the underprepared.
If you are using Mythic Emulator, you are also role-
playing with another rpg, using those mechanics to
operate the game world. Whatever game that is, it
probably came with its own setting.
However, what if you want to create a brand new
setting? Or perhaps create a character and then just drop
them into a gaming universe and see what happens next?
This chapter offers some advice on how to use Mythic
Emulator not just to create a single adventure, but how to
create an entire campaign or game world.
Where to begin
You can begin a Mythic Emulator adventure with as
little detail about the world as you wish. If playing with a
GM, she will likely have some ideas about the adventure
universe. On the other hand, she may start without a clue
about the adventure world, or perhaps the players are
forging ahead without a GM and the only notion they
have about the universe is that it is a “light fantasy” one.
Whether you start detailed or with a blank slate, if you
are running a Mythic Emulator adventure, the key word
to keep in mind is “evolution.” Since the Mythic engine
is guiding the progress of the adventure, there
is no telling what details about the game
world this will reveal. Players could
begin with their characters in a very
generalized concept of a game world
and, by the end of their first
adventure, have a much more
concrete picture of where it is their
characters live.
Evolution of a setting
All of your setting details can evolve from gaming
sessions, without having to specifically generate world
facts outside of the course of adventuring. For instance, if
a pair of players decide they want to adventure in a
fantasy world, in the beginning they may only know the
name of the village their characters come from and the
fact that the kingdom is at war with a nation of orcs. By
the end of the adventure they may have learned that a
secret society of humans is working to help the orcs, that
magic is difficult to cast and has unpredictable results,
that the kingdom’s armies are broken into factions each
loyal to a certain general, and that their village lies on a
major road that stands in the way of the approaching orc
army.
These are all important details that help define the
adventure world. These facts will have a profound impact
on future adventures, which will evolve the world even
more.
By the end of the first adventure, the players will find
the world their characters inhabit is a much different
place than they may have first thought. They will learn
about it as their characters learn.
Issues of control
This is not to say that you have to leave it all up to
Mythic. If you are playing with a GM, that person ought
to consider the results of random checks and altered
scene ideas as suggestions and not hard-and-fast rules. As
the adventure speeds along, they will find ideas popping
into their heads that they like better than the ones
evolving in front of them. Or maybe not. The choice is
theirs.
If playing without a GM, the situation is more
controlled by Mythic. Still, the course of the adventure is
largely shaped by the questions the players ask and the
scene ideas they generate.
38
Chapter 6
World Creation

-- 38 of 54 --

Global questions
Everyone, even the least educated, knows something
about the society and world they live in. Even if you
begin an adventure knowing nothing about the campaign
world, your characters know more than you, the player,
do. It is fair to ask fate questions that reflect general
knowledge. For instance, if players are adventuring in a
generic sci-fi universe, which they know nothing about,
some questions they might ask right away are: Is faster
than light travel possible? Are aliens common? Does
everyone speak the same language?
These kind of global questions will help shape the
adventure world fairly quickly. Some you may already
know, especially if the campaign world was not started
completely from scratch. But even if you come prepared,
your characters may stumble into areas where they should
have knowledge, but you don’t.
Many of these questions will involve large issues and
will be easily remembered. If there is any question about
the fallibility of your memories, however, it may be a
good idea to keep a notebook handy and write some of
these findings down.
E VOLUTION BY
EXAMPLE
Following is a sample game world evolved during the
course of several adventures.
Welcome to Durnam
The kingdom of Durnam is a fantasy realm with an
economic and caste system straight out of the middle
ages. Mancers, the mages of this world, are fairly common
although magic is difficult to control. The kingdom is in
a period of great turmoil as a pestilence, the Withering
Fever, scours the land. Warlords are beginning to take
advantage of the unrest, rising up against once strong
barons.
This is the adventure world as envisioned by a pair of
players who want to try their hand at a dark fantasy
game. Their characters are Turvol, a wandering soldier
whose lord has been toppled and Abner, a mancer of
some ability.
Right at the outset, at the beginning of their first
adventure, the players decide that social station is very
important in this world. In areas where civilization still
stands, he of the highest caste rules.
For the purposes of this example, we’ll say that the
players are using a popular fantasy rpg for their game
mechanics. However, they are tossing out the setting that
comes with the game and making up their own, using the
rpg’s mechanics for task resolution, magic, combat, etc.
The game they are using has a mechanic for dealing
with social station, so the players make sure to emphasize
this when they create their characters.
Turvol is a professional soldier and of about average
social standing. Abner hails from a small, noble family,
giving him a slightly elevated position. Early in the first
adventure, as Abner and Turvol team up, Abner
establishes himself as their leader in the cities, while
Turvol takes over in the untamed wilds.
Through a series of fate questions and completed
scenes, the characters end up going on an adventure to
avenge Turvol’s fallen lord. Abner agrees to help kill the
warlord who usurped command and decimated Turvol’s
comrades.
As they journey through the countryside, they come
across a lieutenant of the offending warlord who refused
to follow his boss’ evil commands and fled. He knows a
secret way into the castle where the warlord is residing,
and agrees to show the two adventurers the way in.
Unfortunately, he has come down with a case of
Withering Fever so he isn’t long for this world. Since this
character is important, the players decide they better
learn a thing or two about the disease.
The rpg they are using has mechanics for dealing with
disease, but they decide the Withering Fever is unique to
their game world. Through the Fate Chart, they
determine that the fever is a magical disease that slowly
dehydrates the victim until they die a dessicated, dried up
husk. During the course of the adventure, Abner uses his
magic to keep the guide alive.
As scenes unfold, the adventurers discover entire
villages suffering from the disease, and they learn that the
warlord they seek is spreading the plague in an attempt to
bring about the end of the world.
When the characters wrap up this adventure, the
players can set their notes aside and bring them out again
for another adventure in the kingdom of Durnam. After
only one adventure they have learned a lot about the
place: warlords prey on the weak; the Withering Fever
threatens all; and social standing is of utmost importance
in this society.
The more adventures they have, the more the world of
Durnam will become fleshed out for them.
World Building
39

-- 39 of 54 --

Q&A
F ollowing is a list of common questions about
Mythic. If you have questions that are not answered
in these pages, you can contact me by email at
mythic@wordpr.com.
Can this really be played without a
GM? I don’t see it happening.
If you’ve read this book, and you don’t believe me,
you’re just going to have to take my word for it until you
find out for yourself. Granted, a GM-free game is not for
everyone. You may prefer a highly prepared game master
controlling the behind-the-scenes action. However,
impromptu adventures, such as those created by Mythic,
can take you to surprising places and are often more
satisfying than a prepared adventure.
There isn’t enough detail. Without a
prepared adventure, how can you tell
what’s in a particular room, etc.?
You have to use some common sense and a few logical
leaps. It all boils down to asking those yes and no
questions. If your characters have been walking through a
dungeon full of orcs, a good first question when entering
a room might be, “Is the room empty?” If a no, then, you
can either assume there are some orcs in there, or you
can ask another fate question. If orcs are present, you
might assume a warband of some 4 since that’s been the
most common encounter. If you want more detail you
either ask another question or take the most common
sense assumption. You can have as much detail as you
like, framed as questions. If you were playing with a live
GM, you’d be asking the same questions anyway.
I like the games I play now. Why
should I switch to Mythic?
You don’t have to switch. You can use Mythic as a GM
“emulator” to help create impromptu adventures for use
with your other RPGs. There is another version of
Mythic, which includes a generic, universal system based
around Mythic concepts.
What’s the difference between Mythic
and Mythic Emulator?
As stated above, Mythic is the original game system
that includes a universal rpg and the emulator rules.
Mythic is designed so that you can use the game system
and the emulator either together, or just take one and
leave the other. This product, Mythic Emulator, is a
tweaked and updated version of the original emlator
rules. This book only contains the emulation rules, and
not the universal system. The reason for this is, judging
from the feedback by players, the emulation portion is
the most popular part of the product. Both of these
products are available online at rpgnow.com, with Mythic
Emulator a few bucks cheaper than Mythic.
What’s with the name?
Is there a story behind “Mythic”?
Nope. I just like the way it sounds. Well, actually,
there is a tad more thought involved. Since Mythic is
intended to create any kind of story for any situation, I
thought “Mythic,” as in generating myths and legends,
was fitting.
I don’t like to ask questions. Thinking
makes my head hurt. What can I do?
I can’t help you.
You mention at the beginning that
Mythic can be used as a writing tool,
but that isn’t addressed in the book.
What’s up?
I figured I didn’t have to specifically address this issue,
but here we are now, doing that. Simply, to use Mythic as
a writing tool, you just do a solo adventure using only
Mythic. You sit, you write, and you refer the questions to
Mythic, just like you would in a game with other players.
40
Chapter 7
Notes and
Suggestions

-- 40 of 54 --

You can keep track of data, such as threads, characters,
chaos, and all of that, or not. Mythic is centrally an
adventure generating tool so it also works great for
helping craft written stories as well.
I hate freestyle games.
Will I hate Mythic?
I don’t like freestyle games much either, that’s one
reason I came up with Mythic. The big advantages to
freestyle games (“freestyle” as in rules-light and more
story-teller oriented) are that they are simple to learn,
play fast because they don’t require a lot of rules-
searching and page flipping, and are able to create a wide
range of adventures very easily. The big downside to
freestyle games is that their adventures can come across
to players as arbitrary, as if things only happen because
the GM wanted them to happen. In many cases, this is
quite true of freestyle games. Many players begin to feel
that their choices are meaningless.
Mythic is an attempt to draw in the advantages of a
freestyle game while cutting out the disadvantages. It is
freestyle in the sense that the action is directed by the
players (they decide how each scene begins, their
questions direct the course of the adventure, etc.)
However, there are random, built-in mechanics that
modify these decisions. Events rarely always work out the
way players think they will and adventures have a
tendency to spin in unexpected directions, just like “real”
adventures do. The story, then, is not entirely up to the
whim of the players and the GM as in many freestyle
games.
Is there an origin to this game?
How did it come about?
Mythic originally developed as an idea to create a solo
role-playing game. As a teenager who loved role-playing
games, but was always light on finding players, I dreamt
of discovering a good, solo game out there. The only
attempts at solo play were some adventures written in the
“choose-your-own-adventure” style, where you follow a
path in the book and are limited to only a few choices at
each important juncture.
This was disappointing to say the least.
I experimented with various ideas, from creating reams
of random tables that describe just about everything to
using tarot cards (after all, if a tarot card can tell the
future, why not use it to tell the present, even a fictional
present?)
None of these ideas worked out so well.
Then, like sunlight breaking through the clouds, a
concept dawned: why not use a system based on simple
logic? From that idea came Mythic, where logic and
interpretation are the foundation. I tried to develop the
fate question system as a type of artificial intelligence,
able to answer any question like a real, living game
master. The choice to make the questions all yes/no is
simply for the sake of efficiency (an early draft of Mythic
allowed for any question to be asked and the answers
were created by interpreting a combination of randomly
rolled words. This was unwieldy as the list of words was
over 10,000 strong and produced some wild results.)
So there you go.
T IPS FOR
B ETTER 	P LAY
This section deals with a few issues and ideas that
were not covered fully in the preceding chapters.
This isn’t ‘20 Questions’
It’s easy once you get knee deep into a Mythic
adventure to not only get in the habit of asking
questions, but of asking too many questions. Resolving
answers is a balance of forming yes/no questions and
using simple logic. You shouldn’t need to ask more than
one question before logic can finish the rest.
It’s best to live with a one question limit to prevent
the “20 questions” syndrome and only breaking that limit
to clarify really important situations. When you know a
few facts and compare them against the larger context of
the whole adventure then a logical conclusion should be
easy to come up with.
Only when logic eludes you should you resort to
asking more questions until you have enough new
information to form a conclusion.
Mythic as the game
The rules set out in this book describe how to use
Mythic as a Game Master emulator. However, the same
rules that are used to answer narrative questions can also
be used to answer game mechanic questions. In other
words, Mythic could be used to role-play without any
other game product.
Mythic Emulator’s parent product (just “Mythic”)
contains fully fleshed out rules for using Mythic as a core
role-playing game. However, you can run a rules-lite
game using nothing more than this book. Characters
would be described in everyday language, such as:
“Randal is a desert barbarian renowned for his strength
and his ferocity in battle. His favored weapon is the
Notes & Suggestions
41

-- 41 of 54 --

scimitar, and he can travel for days without sleep.” Such
a description gives you a basic idea of the character, and
will help when assigning odds to answer questions on the
Fate Chart.
The fine art of interpretation
You’ve been warned about the excessive use of
questions. There is another, similar, trap to avoid:
excessive interpretation. Commonly you will be faced
with a handful of facts and some vague references from
the event meaning charts, and find yourself cooking up
several possible interpretations. Instead of sitting there all
day mulling each one over, just take the one that seems
most logical. If you aren’t sure which one that is, take the
one that came to mind first.
This is especially important if you are playing Mythic
with a group. Everyone will suddenly throw out
interpretations. Take the first one that seems to fit and
move on. If someone has an interpretation that seems
more logical, then quickly consider it as a group.
This leads me to my (almost) last topic ...
You are SOOO immature!
A successful Mythic adventure relies on mature role-
playing. This means enjoying yourself and respecting the
other players. An adventure can be ruined by a player
who attempts to take advantage of the system’s free-form
nature. For instance, the characters are walking down the
street when one player suddenly asks, “Do I find a pot of
gold on the sidewalk?”
Technically, this is a valid question. But it makes no
sense to ask. The player could ask the same question every
time he enters a room, opens a door, or gets out of bed.
Obviously, this kind of play should be discouraged.
Such “strategy” is usually self-defeating in Mythic,
fortunately. If this player shows up in a Mythic group, or
even a well-meaning player asks the occasionally self-
serving question, Mythic can discourage the question
automatically. For instance, the odds of finding a pot of
gold on the sidewalk are pretty slim, let’s say impossible.
With a chaos rank of 5, this gives him a 4% chance of a
simple yes (with a 1% chance of an exceptional yes), a
76% chance of a no, and a 19% chance of an exceptional
no. In a question like the “pot of gold” question, an
exceptional no could mean the opposite, perhaps the
character gets mugged for his wallet! By asking such a
question the character may actually put himself at greater
odds of the opposite happening than gaining a benefit.
The point is that Mythic should be played by those
who want to play it for its free-form nature. And, oh
yeah, be careful what you ask for!
Any more questions?
As if you haven’t heard enough about “questions,” I’m
going to talk about it once again. This time, however, I’m
talking about YOUR questions. If you have any questions
about Mythic, you can email them to
mythic@wordpr.com. Or, go to the Mythic website at
http://www.mythic.wordpr.com
Thanks!
Thanks for giving Mythic a try! I hope you find it a
valuable new tool in your role-playing arsenal. Like most
games, this has been a labor of love several years in the
making. If you’ve enjoyed it half as much as I have, then
I will consider it a success.
Notes & Suggestions
42

-- 42 of 54 --

T his chapter is a great, big extended example of play,
from beginning to end. The example here is
essentially a transcript between two players: John is
the GM and Samantha is the player. Even though they are
playing with a GM, they will be using Mythic to create
the adventure. In this example we will assume game
mechanics are handled by another rpg.
Keep in mind that, in this example, the two are playing
with a GM, but he is generating the adventure with
Mythic. John has no more idea what is going on than Sam
does. In this example, you will see John ask fate questions.
He isn’t phrasing these questions out loud, however, so as
not to tip off Sam to what he’s thinking. Whenever the
adventure reaches a point where John needs to determine
the next direction, he checks with the Fate Chart if a
logical answer isn’t already apparent.
John and Sam get together without any prepared
adventure, although Sam has some ideas. She’s been
reading Michael Moorcock lately and wants a female
version of Elric. The two chat for a bit and come up with
the following new campaign world.
The place is Rantha, a fantasy, medieval world that has
been wracked by war. The clash between kingdoms has
been immense and involved powerful magics which have
devastated the countryside. The final blow in the war
came when a great dragon arose from his ancient slumber
to decimate the staggering armies and claim the land for
itself. In desperation the kingdoms gathered together and
blasted the beast with unheard of magical might. The
dragon literally exploded in a fantasy equivalent of a
nuclear blast.
The armies and kingdoms had already been devastated
and fractured. The cataclysmic death of the dragon ended
what little civilization remained and showered the land
with evil magic, which mutated plant and animal life into
horrific forms. With their liege lords dead, and the soldiers
gone, commoners found themselves at the mercy of
walking horrors.
Into this world comes Sam’s character, Gloranna. She
was once a commander in the army of one of the fallen
lords. During the wars, she came into possession of a
magic sword that sapped the life out of those the blade bit
and converted that energy into magical power. Gloranna
became adept at manipulating these forces, using the
ancient blade to devastating effect on the battlefield and
earning herself a fearsome reputation.
They construct Sam’s character, making her part
warrior and part mage, and get ready to play her first
adventure.
John decides he’ll let the dice come up with the
adventure seed, so he rolls a random event to see what
kicks off the first scene. He comes up with “introduce a
new NPC” on the event focus table, and “break” and
“legal matters” on the event meaning charts. After a
moment of thought, he comes up with the following scene
setup.
John: “Gloranna has been living in a valley for months
now with a ragtag group of refugees, those who survived
the war and found each other. They have formed a loose
kind of village, and Gloranna has risen to become their
leader. One day, however, a band of warriors rides into the
village lead by a young man wearing a crown. He
announces himself as Prince Vilmor, the rightful heir to
the lord who previously ruled these lands, and he is
looking for men to join his army. He is claiming the land,
and the people, for himself. Several members of the
village lead him to Gloranna’s tent, where he introduces
himself. He extends his hand, expecting Gloranna to
kneel and kiss it.”
Sam: “Hmm. Right off, she doesn’t like the look of this.
She gives the prince a bow, but does not kiss his hand.”
John: “Alright. He looks at you, surprised and
somewhat offended.” John decides to check on the Fate
Chart to see how offended he is. He asks the fate
question, “does the prince demand fealty?” and gives the
odds as likely. He rolls an 18, for a yes. “The prince looks
at you and says, ‘I am your rightful lord, soldier. Kneel and
pay me homage!’”
Sam: “Alright, Gloranna’s just not in the mood for this.
She says, ‘We’ve moved beyond the age of kings, my
prince. I bow to no man.’”
John: John has already established that the prince is a
proud man, so he knows this will probably not go over
well with him. He asks the fate question, “does the prince
order his men to force her to kneel?” He considers the
odds very likely, and rolls a 37 for a yes. “‘Guards! Make
her kneel!’ the prince cries.” At the start of this
adventure, John had simply stated that the prince had
ridden into the village with a band of warriors. He is
going to assume that there are two nearby who will answer
his call. “A pair of soldiers draw their swords and come at
you, with menacing looks in their eyes.”
Sam: “I’m not going to mess around. Prince or no
prince, he’s on my territory. Gloranna draws her sword
43
Chapter 8
Extended Example

-- 43 of 54 --

and attacks the guards.
At this point, a battle ensues between Gloranna and
the two guards. John adjudicates the combat, which
Gloranna wins by swiftly dispatching the two men with
her magic sword.
John: “You stand above the two bodies, a little smoke
rising off your sword as it drinks up the last of their life
force and feeds it into you. The prince stands by shocked
and horrified.” John is not entirely sure what the prince
will do next, but decides to ask the following Fate Chart
question, “Does the prince flee, vowing revenge?” He
gives the odds as likely and rolls a 26 for a yes. “The
prince flees from the tent and back to his men. Some of
the villagers had seen what happened, and they have
grabbed what makeshift weapons they can, and start
approaching the prince and his men. Leaping upon his
horse he cries out, ‘You will regret this, fool! I will destroy
you all!’ With that, he and his men ride away.”
John and Sam decide at this point that the main action
has ended for this scene. John updates his adventure
sheet. To the character list, he adds the prince, the people
of the valley, and the prince’s guards. He adds to the
thread list, protect the village from the prince. This is
going to be the primary thrust of this adventure, John
figures. Finally, he decides that, although Gloranna won
in her battle against the two guards, that the situation was
not really under control. So, he moves the chaos factor up
from a 5 to a 6.
It’s time to move on to scene 2. John asks Sam what
her next move is so he can figure out what the next scene
setup will likely be.
Sam: “I gather a group of villagers, five able-bodied
men, and we leave in the night to try and scope out the
prince and his troops. We need to find out how many
soldiers he has.”
John rolls a d10 to see if this is how the scene actually
begins. He rolls a 1, well within the chaos
factor of 6, and indicates an altered scene.
John goes with the following setup: “Your
plan to gather up a scouting party has met
with a problem. The village has only one
horse. There is no way that six people could
make much distance in the dark, so Gloranna
will likely have to go alone.”
Sam: “Alright. She works better alone
anyway. She’ll take the horse and follow the
prince’s trail as best she can.”
John: “Gloranna rides from the village as
the sun begins to set, following the prince’s
hoofprints.” John uses game mechanics to test
Gloranna’s skill at tracking during the night.
He decides that it takes her a few hours, but
she manages to locate where the prince is
camping. Before he decides, though, he asks
the Fate Chart, “Is the prince camping in a
clearing?” with odds of near sure thing. John
figures, where else is the prince going to camp
out in the wild? He rolls a 95. A very high
roll, but since the chaos factor had moved to
a 6, the roll still provides a yes answer. “As
you top a ridge, you see firelight past the trees
below. You can see that the prince and his
men have camped in a clearing.” John needs
to decide just how large the prince’s horde is,
now that Gloranna can see it. He decides that
since the prince road into the village with
only a small band, and since he was looking
to take the village as his own, he figures the
prince is only now beginning to gather people
to him, and so likely has only a very small
force. He asks the fate question, “Does the
Extended Example
44
Permission is granted by the publisher to copy this page for personal use only.
Adventure Notes
Scene Setup Lists
Characters
Threads
Chaos Factor
5
1
Scene
Scene Setup	Scene
	Scene Setup	Scene
Scene Setup	Scene
Scene Setup	Scene 	Scene Setup	Scene
Scene Setup 	Scene Setup	Scene	Scene
Summary of Resolving Scenes
• Come up with the Scene Setup.
• Roll 1D10 against Chaos to see if the Setup is modified
as an Altered Scene (odd) or an Interrupt (even).
• Play out the Scene.
• When the main action ends, the Scene ends.
• Update lists: Characters, Threads, Chaos Factor
The prince
People of the Valley
Prince’s guards
Prince from nowhere rides
into the village and
claims it.
Protect the village
from the prince
6

-- 44 of 54 --

prince only have about twenty men?” with odds of likely.
He rolls a 65 for a yes. “You can see that the camp is not
large and there are about twenty men about.”
Sam: “Hmm, okay. I am going to creep closer and see if
I can get a better look at them.”
John: The GM makes some rolls, using their chosen
rpg mechanics to see if Gloranna can sneak closer without
being detected. “You succeed, slipping from tree to tree,
treading silentlly over the wilderness ground until you are
close enough to hear men talking.” John decides that, if
the prince is planning on attacking the next day, it’s likely
the men would be talking about it. He puts this to the
Fate Chart, and rolls a 35. “A pair of men sit beside a fire,
cooking something on a stick. They are talking about the
raid scheduled for dawn. One is laughing about how easy
it will be to take down a bunch of refugees.” John has an
idea and takes it a step further. The prince had told
Gloranna that he was looking for fighting men, but
perhaps he was only looking for slaves. John
puts this question to the Fate Chart, with
odds of somewhat likely. He rolls a 100, for
an exceptional no! Exceptional no results
usually mean the exreme opposite of what
was asked, so John knows they are not
looking for slaves. He thinks of something
that fits the results. “One of the men takes a
bite of his food and sneers at his friend. He
says, ‘I can’t believe we are going to all of
this trouble just to find one man.’ His friend
answers, ‘Yeah, well, the prince seems to
think Rakhim knows where the vessel lies.
He’s hiding out here somewhere, and it looks
like we’re going to take apart every village
we come across until we find him.’”
Sam: “Rakhim? Is that a name I recognize?
And what is the vessel?”
John: John doesn’t know either, since he
just made up those details to fit the results of
the Fate Chart. He puts both of Sam’s
questions to the Fate Chart. For, “does
Gloranna know a Rakhim?” he gives odds of
very unlikely, and rolls a 46 for a no. For the
fate question, “does Gloranna know what the
vessel is?” he gives odds of very unlikely as
well, and rolls a 24 for a yes. “The name
Rakhim is unfamiliar to you. However, you
have heard of an artifact called the Vessell. It
is said to contain some of the living blood of
the great dragon whose death caused the
kingdom so much misery. Whoever possesses
the vessel is said to have access to a vast
amount of magical energy.”
Sam: “Well, Gloranna frowns at that.
She’s only met this prince once, and already she doesn’t
want him having that much power. If she were to hightail
it back home, could she round up some of the villagers
and get them back here before dawn?”
John: John thought about that, and made it a fate
question with odds of 50/50, since he really had no idea.
He rolls a 39 for a yes. “Gloranna seems to think so, if she
can ride straight through without incident. What do you
have in mind?”
Sam: “You’ll see. She’ll try and slip away then.”
John: John determines that Gloranna slips away from
the camp without a problem. Since the major action of
this scene is over, John declares Scene 2 complete and
prepares for Scene 3. He updates his adventure chart,
adding a note to the scene summary. To the character list,
he adds “prince’s men.” He already has “prince’s guards,”
but he decides to make a distinction between those who
personally guard the prince and the rest of the men in
Extended Example
45
Permission is granted by the publisher to copy this page for personal use only.
Adventure Notes
Scene Summary Lists
Characters
Threads
Chaos Factor
5
1
Scene
Scene Summary	Scene
	Scene Summary	Scene
Scene Summary
2
Scene
Scene Summary	Scene 	Scene Summary	Scene
Scene Summary 	Scene Summary	Scene	Scene
Summary of Resolving Scenes
• Come up with the Scene Setup.
• Roll 1D10 against Chaos to see if the Setup is modified
as an Altered Scene (odd) or an Interrupt (even).
• Play out the Scene.
• When the main action ends, the Scene ends.
• Update lists: Characters, Threads, Chaos Factor
The prince
People of the Valley
Prince’s guards
Prince’s men
Prince from nowhere rides
into the village and
claims it.
Prince has 20 men
camped nearby.
Protect the village
from the prince
6 5

-- 45 of 54 --

general. The threads list doesn’t change, since Gloranna’s
mission is still to protect the village from the prince.
Gloranna was in control throughout Scene 2, so John
lowers the chaos factor to 5.
Sam said she planned to have Gloranna head back to
the village and gather people together. This is how he
pictures Scene 3 starting then. He tests this scene setup
with a roll of a d10, and gets an 8, which means the
scene begins as envisioned.
“Gloranna rides back fast, her skill at horsemanship
allowing her to cover a lot of ground despite the dark.
She encounters no problems along the way and reaches
the village in the dead of the night. What’s her plan
now?”
Sam: “I go through the village, rousing anyone who is
able to go with me. I tell them to take ropes, weapons,
shovels, tarps and cloth, and just about anything they can
get their hands on.”
John: “If you’re going to have them go back with you,
time is of the essence. You’ve got the only horse, so they
are going to have to gather quickly and move.” John
decides to make this a fate question, to see if the villagers
are able to get it together as quickly as Gloranna wants
them to. He makes a fate question of, “Do they move as
swiftly as Gloranna wants?” and gives it odds of likely. He
rolls a 9 for an exceptional yes. “When the villagers hear
what Gloranna has to tell them about the impending
attack, they move with amazing speed. In fact, most of
them were already awake and alert, waiting for your
return. Faster than you would have believed, they gather
the materials you want and head off with you in the
lead.”
Sam: “Since I know where the camp is, I move as
quickly as I can with them back to near the spot. With
twenty men, I am going to figure that the prince will use
the same road that Gloranna is using when he moves to
attack the village. So, when we are about a
mile out from the camp, we stop. I order
the villagers to begin digging pits in the
road, and cover them with tarps and leaves.
We can tie the ropes to trees, and attach
logs to them so we can swing them down at
riders.”
John: “So, basically, you’re going to trap
this section of the road.”
Sam: “Yeah.”
John: “The villagers work for the next
four hours, following Gloranna’s directions
and erecting the traps. As the sun begins to
top the horizon, they have finished with all
they could get done. Soon, the riders
should appear.”
Sam: “Gloranna tells them all to hide,
grabbing whatever weapons they can. She’ll
hide as well and wait for the attackers. The
plan is, when they come, I’m hoping they’ll
hit the traps and be a bit scattered and
confused. Gloranna will attack then, and
any of the villagers who feel game can
weigh in as well. At least, they can help
finish off anyone who has been
incapacitated by a trap.”
John: “Sounds good.” That seems like a
good place to cap off Scene 3. John updates
his adventure sheet.
No new characters were introduced, and
no new threads, so John leaves those lists
alone. Gloranna was in control once again
this scene, so he lowers the chaos factor to
4 this time.
The character is simply waiting now for
Extended Example
46
Permission is granted by the publisher to copy this page for personal use only.
Adventure Notes
Scene Summary Lists
Characters
Threads
Chaos Factor
5
1
Scene
Scene Summary
3
Scene
	Scene Summary	Scene
Scene Summary
2
Scene
Scene Summary	Scene
	Scene Summary	Scene
Scene Summary 	Scene Summary	Scene	Scene
Summary of Resolving Scenes
• Come up with the Scene Setup.
• Roll 1D10 against Chaos to see if the Setup is modified
as an Altered Scene (odd) or an Interrupt (even).
• Play out the Scene.
• When the main action ends, the Scene ends.
• Update lists: Characters, Threads, Chaos Factor
The prince
People of the Valley
Prince’s guards
Prince’s men
Prince from nowhere rides
into the village and
claims it.
Prince has 20 men
camped nearby.
Villagers lay a trap for
the invaders.
Protect the village
from the prince
6 5 4

-- 46 of 54 --

the invaders to come. The setup for scene 4 is to have the
invaders ride into the trap, and Gloranna attacks them.
John rolls to see if this is how it pans out, and gets a 2 for
an interrupt scene. He needs to roll a random event to see
what causes a different, unanticipated scene. Checking
the event focus table, he gets a 24 for NPC action.
Randomly determining an NPC, he rolls up the prince’s
men. Using the event meaning tables, he gets “transform”
as the action and “expectations” as the subject. John
thinks about this for a moment, and comes up with the
first thing that comes to mind.
It’s time to start Scene 4 now. “In the distance you
hear the pounding of hoofbeats. The riders are coming,
the ground shaking slightly from their approach.
Gloranna can see that the villagers around her are
nervous. These are not fighting people. She can only
hope that their traps will do most of the damage. The
riders come into view, galloping hard, and Gloranna
realizes she has made a mistake. At the lead of the riders
are about four men, two of whom were the ones she heard
talking the night before. Behind them are about sixteen
additional riders. However, they are not men. Even from a
distance, she can see that the remainder of the prince’s
force are mutants and mishapen humans, their faces
warped and snarling. These aren’t just fighting men, but
creatures warped by the land’s evil magic. Each one is far
tougher than a standard human, and hard to put down.”
Sam: “Oh, man. Well, there’s nothing else to do at this
point. Hopefully those traps will work.”
John: Deciding to make this a fate question, he
silently asks of the chart, “do the traps take out the first
10 riders?” He gives this odds of 50/50, since there seems
to be a fair amount of luck involved. He rolls 42 for a no.
“The riders charge into your trapped area, and the first
one hits a pit. He goes down into it, and the other riders
immediately try and pull up on their reigns. Another one
tumbles into a pit. The villagers release their ropes,
swinging the logs down at the invaders. A human and a
mutant are knocked from their horses and into the
woods. That’s a total of four taken down. However, the
others have managed to avoid the traps. The mutants
snarl as the humans bark orders, preparing for a counter
attack. The prince is at the rear of the group, screaming
at them to attack.”
Sam: “Hmm, that didn’t go so well. Gloranna draws
her sword and wades into the group, attacking them. She
will try to use her knowledge of where the remaining pits
are to keep them from all attacking her at once.”
John: The adventure has turned into a battle royale,
with Gloranna at the center of it. John uses the game
mechanics from the rpg they are using to figure out how
the battle goes. Occassionally during the fight, he needs
to answer a fate question. Such as, “does the mutant
attacking her accidentally step into another pit?” During
the course of answering questions, John rolls a 22 ... a
double number, with the single digit within the chaos
factor range. This means a random event occurs.
Gloranna is in the midst of a major, pitched battle, so
John already knows what the context of this event will
be. That part is easy. For the event focus, he rolls “NPC
action,” and he randomly determines that the NPC in
question is “prince’s guards.” For the meaning, he rolls
“inspect” and “pain.” John comes up with the following
event. “Gloranna, you notice that one of the villagers
had gotten through the line and actually attacked the
prince, who has been standing back the whole time. His
personal guard killed the villager, but they are huddled
around the prince now and are pulling him back. This is
drawing off the guard, and just leaves about five more
mutants to deal with.” Gloranna continues her battle
until she is the last one standing, bruised, battered and
bleeding, but victorious.
Sam: “Any sign of the prince? I’d like to save him for
desert.”
John: Figuring the odds to this question are “no way,”
since the prince high-tailed it out of there, John rolls
anyway and gets a 37. “No. He is long gone.”
With the battle concluded, this scene draws to a close.
John gives Sam some parting images of the villagers
cleaning up and gathering their dead before they head
back home.
With the prince’s men destroyed, John decides this
completes the thread and ends the adventure. John
decides to throw in one more scene as a kind of epilogue.
His scene setup is, “The people throw Gloranna a party
in appreciation of her saving their butts.” Since she
dominated in the last scene, he lowered the chaos factor
another point, to 3. Rolling d10, he gets a 6. The scene
setup stands as is.
“In appreciation for your leadership and bravery in
battle, the villagers throw a tremendous celebration in
Gloranna’s honor. Their is feasting, dancing, music, and
much merriment. As she sits and enjoys the festival, one
of the village elders comes near and sits beside her. He
says, ‘You know the prince will return some day. A man
like him does not take a beating lightly.’”
Sam: “Gloranna looks at him, but says nothing. What
can she say, he’s probably right. She smiles at him instead
and takes a big chug of her drink. ‘Let him come!’ she
says.”
John: “Nice. A good end to the adventure.”
Since John figures the elderly villager is probably
correct, he adds the prince to Gloranna’s personal NPC
list of important people, leaving the door open for a
future adventure involving that character.
Extended Example
47

-- 47 of 54 --



-- 48 of 54 --

49
Fate ChartTo use this chart, cross reference the odds of a question resulting in a “yes” answer with the current chaos rank. The result is the percentage chance of the question
resulting in a “yes” answer. A roll within the range of the number on the left is an “exceptional yes” and equal or more than the number on the right is an “exceptional no.”
Impossible
No way
Very unlikely
Unlikely
50/50
Somewhat likely
Likely
Very likely
Near sure thing
A sure thing
Has to be
Has to be x2
Odds
10 50 91
15 75 96
16 85 97
18 90 99
19 95 100
19 95 100
20 100 0
21 105 0
23 115 0
25 125 0
26 145 0
29 165 0
5 25 86
10 50 91
13 65 94
15 75 96
16 85 97
18 90 99
19 95 100
19 95 100
20 100 0
22 110 0
26 130 0
30 150 0
3 15 84
7 35 88
10 50 91
11 55 92
15 75 96
16 85 97
18 90 99
19 95 100
19 95 100
19 95 100
20 100 0
24 120 0
2 10 83
5 25 86
9 45 90
10 50 91
13 65 94
16 80 97
16 85 97
18 90 99
19 95 100
19 95 100
20 100 0
24 120 0
1 5 82
3 15 84
5 25 86
7 35 88
10 50 91
13 65 94
15 75 96
16 85 97
18 90 99
18 90 99
19 95 100
1 5 82
2 10 83
3 15 84
4 20 85
7 35 88
10 50 91
11 55 92
15 75 96
16 80 97
16 85 97
19 95 100
20 100 0
0 0 81
1 5 82
2 10 83
3 15 84
5 25 86
9 45 90
10 50 91
13 65 94
15 75 96
16 80 97
18 90 99
19 95 100
0 0 81
1 5 82
1 5 82
2 10 83
3 15 84
5 25 86
7 35 88
10 50 91
11 55 92
13 65 94
16 85 97
19 95 100
0 -20 77
0 0 81
1 5 82
1 5 82
2 10 83
4 20 85
5 25 86
9 45 90
10 50 91
11 55 92
16 80 97
18 90 99
20 for each point over 2
+20 for each point over 2 	9 	8 	7 	6 	5 	4 	3 	2 	1	Exceptional Yes
The lower 1/5 of the success range.
Exceptional No
The upper 1/5 of the failure range. 	Chaos Rank
Summary of How to Use the Fate Chart
1: State a question: Form a yes/no question.
2: Determine odds: Estimate the odds of the question
coming out “yes.”
3: Determine probability: Cross reference the odds with
the current Choas score to get your percentage chance
of a “yes” answer.
4: Roll: Roll 1D100. If you roll within the percentage
range, the answer is yes. If you roll above, the answer
is no. If you roll in the lower 1/5 of the range, then the
answer is an exceptional yes. If you roll in the upper
1/5 of the failure range, then the answer is an
exceptional no.
5: Interpret the answer: Draw the most logical
conclusion from the results. If this is not possible, then
ask another question to clarify, returning to step 1.
Event Focus Table
1-7 	. . . . . . . . . . . .Remote event
8-28 	. . . . . . . . . . .NPC action
29-35 	. . . . . . . . . .Introduce a new NPC
36-45 	. . . . . . . . . .Move toward a thread
46-52 . . . . . . . . . . .Move away from a thread
53-55 	. . . . . . . . . .Close a thread
56-67 	. . . . . . . . . .PC negative
68-75 	. . . . . . . . . .PC positive
76-83 	. . . . . . . . . .Ambiguous event
84-92 	. . . . . . . . . .NPC negative
93-100 	. . . . . . . . .NPC positive
Summary of Resolving Random Events
1) 	Determine event focus.
2) 	Determine event meaning (the action and
subject).
3) 	Interpret the random event based on context,
focus and meaning. Take the most logical
conclusion.

-- 49 of 54 --

50
1. Attainment
2. Starting
3. Neglect
4. Fight
5. Recruit
6. Triumph
7. Violate
8. Oppose
9. Malice
10. Communicate
11. Persecute
12. Increase
13. Decrease
14. Abandon
15. Gratify
16. Inquire
17. Antagonise
18. Move
19. Waste
20. Truce
21. Release
22. Befriend
23. Judge
24. Desert
25. Dominate
26. Procrastinate
27. Praise
28. Separate
29. Take
30. Break
31. Heal
32. Delay
33. Stop
34. Lie
35. Return
36. Immitate
37. Struggle
38. Inform
39. Bestow
40. Postpone
41. Expose
42. Haggle
43. Imprison
44. Release
45. Celebrate
46. Develop
47. Travel
48. Block
49. Harm
50. Debase
51. Overindulge
52. Adjourn
53. Adversity
54. Kill
55. Disrupt
56. Usurp
57. Create
58. Betray
59. Agree
60. Abuse
61. Oppress
62. Inspect
63. Ambush
64. Spy
65. Attach
66. Carry
67. Open
68. Carelessness
69. Ruin
70. Extravagance
71. Trick
72. Arrive
73. Propose
74. Divide
75. Refuse
76. Mistrust
77. Deceive
78. Cruelty
79. Intolerance
80. Trust
81. Excitement
82. Activity
83. Assist
84. Care
85. Negligence
86. Passion
87. Work hard
88. Control
89. Attract
90. Failure
91. Pursue
92. Vengeance
93. Proceedings
94. Dispute
95. Punish
96. Guide
97. Transform
98. Overthrow
99. Oppress
100. Change
Event Meaning: Action
1. Goals
2. Dreams
3. Environment
4. Outside
5. Inside
6. Reality
7. Allies
8. Enemies
9. Evil
10. Good
11. Emotions
12. Opposition
13. War
14. Peace
15. The innocent
16. Love
17. The spiritual
18. The intellectual
19. New ideas
20. Joy
21. Messages
22. Energy
23. Balance
24. Tension
25. Friendship
26. The physical
27. A project
28. Pleasures
29. Pain
30. Possessions
31. Benefits
32. Plans
33. Lies
34. Expectations
35. Legal matters
36. Bureaucracy
37. Business
38. A path
39. News
40. Exterior factors
41. Advice
42. A plot
43. Competition
44. Prison
45. Illness
46. Food
47. Attention
48. Success
49. Failure
50. Travel
51. Jealousy
52. Dispute
53. Home
54. Investment
55. Suffering
56. Wishes
57. Tactics
58. Stalemate
59. Randomness
60. Misfortune
61. Death
62. Disruption
63. Power
64. A burden
65. Intrigues
66. Fears
67. Ambush
68. Rumor
69. Wounds
70. Extravagance
71. A representative
72. Adversities
73. Opulence
74. Liberty
75. Military
76. The mundane
77. Trials
78. Masses
79. Vehicle
80. Art
81. Victory
82. Dispute
83. Riches
84. Status quo
85. Technology
86. Hope
87. Magic
88. Illusions
89. Portals
90. Danger
91. Weapons
92. Animals
93. Weather
94. Elements
95. Nature
96. The public
97. Leadership
98. Fame
99. Anger
100. Information
Event Meaning: Subject

-- 50 of 54 --

Permission is granted by the publisher to copy this page for personal use only.
Adventure Notes
Scene Setup Lists
Characters
Threads
Chaos Factor
5
Scene #
Scene SetupScene #
Scene SetupScene #
Scene SetupScene #
Scene SetupScene #
	Scene SetupScene #
Scene Setup 	Scene SetupScene #	Scene #
Summary of Resolving Scenes
• Come up with the Scene Setup.
• Roll 1D10 against Chaos to see if the Setup is modified
as an Altered Scene (odd) or an Interrupt (even).
• Play out the Scene.
• When the main action ends, the Scene ends.
• Update lists: Characters, Threads, Chaos Factor

-- 51 of 54 --



-- 52 of 54 --

Adventure 20
Adventure setup 33
Adventures 6
Altered scenes 26
Artists 2
Big Picture 11
Chaos Factor 24, 30
Character Action 14
Characters 22
Cinematic 21
Cinematic Play 21
Cinematic scenes 29
Common questions 40
Context 13
Deductive logic 18
Event context 13
Event focus 13
Event focus table 14
Event meaning 16
Event Meaning Table 17, 50
Exceptional results 11
Fate chart 8, 11, 49
Fate chart random events 13
GM 5, 6
GM Emulation 33
I dunno Rule 16
Improvisation 7
Inductive logic 18
Interpretation 6, 7, 11, 42
Interrupt scenes 27
Introduce a New Character 14
Lists 22
Logic 7, 18
Modifying the scene setup 26
Notes 40
NPC 22
Open thread 15
Q&A 40
Random Event Examples 19
Random events 13
Randomness 13
Remote Event 14
RyK 2
Scene length 28
Scene random events 13
Scene setup 25
Scenes 20, 25
Set the scene 25
Setup 22
Sherlock Holmes 18
Simulation 21
Solo 6
Subplots 25
Suggestions 40
Summary of Resolving Random
Events 15, 49
Summary of Resolving Scenes 29
Threads 25, 30
Tips 41
World Creation 38
Writing 6
Index
53

-- 53 of 54 --

WM2

-- 54 of 54 --

